Cosmogenic Cycle - Transformations of the Hero - Primordial
Hero and the Human


2stages first
1. immediate emanations of Uncreated Creating to the fluid yet
timeless personages of mythological age
2. from these Created Creating Ones to the sphere of human history

formely causal bodies were visible, now only their secondary 
effects come to focus in the little hard-fact pupil of the human
eye. 

cosmogenic cycle is now to be moved forward not by  the gods
but by the heroes, 

this is line where creation myths begin to give place to legends
metaphysics yields to prehistory, dim and vague at first
but becomes gradually precise in detail.

heroes become less and less fabulous, until at last, in the 
final stages of various local tranditions, legends open into
the common day-light of recorded time. 

There will be a figure that appear on the dawn stage of every
legendary past, culture heroes, city founders. 

eg there existed among them the direct sons of the dead mighty 
one, who like the children of his first begetting, grown 
from infancy to man hood in a single day. filled with double 
charge of creative energy, they were sources of revelation

another would be chinese chronicles records when earth had 
solidified and people were setting in the riverlands, "heavenly
emperor" governed among them, who taught them how to fish 
with nets and go hunt. there is a supernatural tablet entrusted
to him by a horse shaped scaly monster and he deduced the 
eight diagrams from it. 

the "early emperor", his successor was 8'7" tall. that is 
miraculously conceived through the influence of a dragon. 
he discovered in one day 70 poisonous plants and antidotes,
through a glass covering to his stomach he could observe 
digestion of each herb. 
he was inventor of plough and system of barter, as he is
worshipped by chinese peasant as prince of cereals. 
at the age of one hundred and 68 he was joined to the immortals

those examples tell a past when emperor was the carriesr of a 
special world-creating, world-sustaining power, which is 
very much greater than that represented in the normal 
human physique. 

in those times accomplished the heavy-titan work, the massive
establishment of the foundations of our human civilization.
with progress of the cycle, period came when the work to be done
was no longer proto- or super human, it was labor specifically
to the man eg. passions, exploration of the arts, elaboration
of the economic and cultural institutions of the state. 

there are now no requirement for incarnation of the moonbull, 
serpent wisdom of eight diagrams of destiny but a perfect human
spirit alert to the needs and hopes of the heart. 

cosmogenic cycle yields an emperor in human form who shall 
stand for all generations to come as the model of man the king


