Cosmogenic Cycle

Emanations

From Psychology to Metaphysics

Symbolism of mythology has psychological significance.
either myths are nature of dream, or that dreams are symptomatic
of dynamics of psyche.
patterns and logic of fairy tale and myth correspond to those of dreams

through the wondertales that pretend to describe the  lives of 
legendary heroes, powers of divinities by nature, spirits of dead, and
totem ancestores of group-- symbolic expression is given to the 
unconscious desires fears, and tensions that underlies conscious 
patterns human behavior.

mythology is psychology misread as biography, history and cosmology.

modern psychologist can translate it back to proper denotations and 
rescue a rich and eloquent document of profoundest depths of human 
character. 

we only have to read, study its constant patterns, analyze variations, 
and come to and understanding of deep forces that have shaped man's 
destiny and must continue to determine both our private and our 
public lives.

if we are to understand full value of materials, we must not that 
myths are not exactly comparable to dream. the figures originate from 
sources -- unconscious well of fantasy, their grammar is same but 
they are not spontaneous products of sleep. on the contrary their patterns
are consciously controlled, and their understood function is to serve
as powerful picture language for the communication of traditional
wisdom. 


to grasp full value of those mythological figures that have come down
to us, we must understand that they are not only symptoms of unconscious
(all human thoughts and acts too) but also controlled and intended
statements of certain spiritual principles that remained constant 
throughout the human history as form and nervous structure of human 
physique itself. 


in brief formulation universal doctrine teaches that all visible
structures of world (things and beings) are effects of omniscient power 
out of which they rise, that power supports and fills them during 
period of their manifestation, and back into which they must ultimately
dissolve. the power known to science is energy, that manifestation 
in the cosmos is the structure and flux of the universe itself.

understanding of the source of particularized substratum of being 
is prevented by the organs itself in which the understanding must be 
accomplished. 

those forms of sensibility and categories of human thought, that are
manifestations of this power, confines mind that it is normally 
impossible to see and conceive, beyond colorful and fluid infinitely 
variosu and bewildering phenomenal spectacle. 


function of ritual and myth is to make possible, and facilitate the 
jump(by analogy). Forms and conceptions that mind and its senses can
understand are presented and arranged in such a way as to suggest 
a truth or openness beyond. Then the conditions for meditation 
having been provided, the individual is left alone. Myth is just 
second to last, the last is the openness -- that void or being, beyond 
the categories in which the mind must plunge alone and dissolve. 

Therefore, god and gods are convenient means -- themselves of nature 
of the world of names and forms, though eloquent of 
and ultimately conducive to the ineffable. They are mere symbols to move 
and awaken the mind, and to call it past themselves. 

key to modern systems of psychological interpretation therefor is this: 
metaphysical realm = unconscious, key to open the door the other is 
same equation as reverse. 

constriction of conscious,( which we owe fact that we see not the source
of power but only the phenomenal forms reflected from taht power), 
creates the world. 

Redemptions consists in return to superconsciousness and therewith
the dissolution of world.

the formula of cosmogenic cycle is the mythical image of the worlds
coming into manifestation and subsequent return into the non-manifest
condition. 

equally the birth and death of individual maybe regarded as descent
into unconsciousness and return. 

hero is the one, while still alive, knows and represents the claims
of the superconsciousness which throughout creation is more or less
unconscious. 

adventure of hero represents moment in his life when he achieved
illumination -- nuclear moment when he is still alive,  found and opened
the road to the light beyond the dark walls of our living death. 


