2 degrees of initiation in the mansion of the father
in the first son returns as emissary
but from second, with the knowledge that "I and father are one" 
heros from second, highest illumination are the world redeemers, 
the so-called incarnations, in the highest sense. 

their myths open out to cosmic proportions, words carry an authority
beyond anything pronounced by the heroes of the scepter and book.

work of incarnation is refute by his presence the pretension of the 
tyrant ogre. 

ogre occluded the source of grace with the shadow of his limited 
personality,
the incarnation, free of ego-consciousness, is a direct manifestation
of the law. 

on a grandiose scale he enacts the hero-life -- performs the hero-deeds, 
slays the monster -- but it is all with the freedom of a work done
only to make evident to the eye what might have been accomplished 
equally well with a mere thought

legends of the redeemer describe the period of desolation as caused
by moral fault on the part of man.
from the standpoint of cosmogonic cycle, regular alternation of fair 
and soul is characteristic of the spectacle of time


just as in the history of the universe, so also in that of nations, 
emanation leads to dissolution
youth to age
birth to death,
form-creativity vitality to the dead weight of inertia

golden age, reign of the world emperor, alternates, in the pulse of 
every moment of life, with the waste land, the reign of the tyrant,

the god who is the creator becomes destroyer in the evident

work of the hero is to slay the tenacious aspect of the father(dragon,
tester, ogre king) and release from its ban vital energies that will
feed the universe. 

can be done either in accordance with the Father's will or against his
will, father may chose death for his children's sake, or it may be that 
the gods impose the passion upon him, making him their sacrificial
 victim

those are not contradictory ways, but different of telling one and same
story

in reality, slayer and dragon, sacrificer and victim are of one mind 
behind the scenes, where there is no polarity of contraries, but mortal
enemies on the stage, where teh everlasting war of the Gods and the 
Titans is displayed.

any case dragon father remains a totality of divine powers, 
no more diminished by what he exhales than he is increased by what 
he reposses. 

he is death for whom our life depends, 
in question 'is death many?'
answer is he is one, but he have children

hero of yesterday becomes tyrant of tommorrow, unless he crucifies
himself today. 


the savior figure who eliminates the tyrant father and then himself
assumes to crown is like stepping into sire's stead

to soften harsh patricide, legend represents father as some cruel uncle
or usurping Nimrod. nevertheless, half-hidden fact remains

once it is glimped, entire spectacle, buckles: son slays father,
but son and father are one.

enigmatical figure dissolves back into primal chaos, this is the wisdom
of the end(and rebeginning of the world)

