Cosmogenic Cycle - The Breaking of One into the Manifold

forward roll would be the precipiation of One into the many 
with a great crisis, a rift splits created word into two 
apparently contradictory planes of being. 

in mythology wherever the mighty living one holds center of 
attention, there is miraculous spontaineity about the 
shaping of the universe. 

elements condense and mov einto play on their own or at the 
creators slightest world. 

when the perspective shifts, to focus on living beings, 
when panorama of space and nature is faced from standpoint
of personages ordained to inhabit it, then sudden 
transformation overshadows the cosmic scene.

The forms of world no longer appear to move in the patterns 
of living, growing and harmonius thing but stand uncooperative
toward authority, or at best inert. 

Props of this universal stage have to be adjusted, even beaten
into shape. The eart brings forth thorns and thistles: man 
eats bread in sweat of his brow. 

Two modes of myth therefor confront us.

One is demiurgic forces continue to operate of themselves
other is they give up initiative and set themselves against
the further progress of cosmogonic round. 

difficulties represented in this latter form of myth begin even
as early as during the long darkness of the original, creature
begeting embrace of cosmic parents. 


sky lay so close to belly of papa(mother) that childrenn could
not break free from the womb, so they decided to rend the sky
and papa in order to break free

but if these deeds of the desperate children seem violent, they
are as nothing compared with teh total carving up of the parent
power.

herein lies the basic paradox of myth: paradox of the dual focus

it was possible ot say "god is not involved" but at the same time
"god is creator-preserver-destroyer" 

From perspective of the source, the world is majestic harmony
of forms pouring into being, in the way that is exploding and 
dissolving.  

But what swiftly passing creatures experience is a terrible 
cacaphony of battle cries and pain.

those myths do not deny this agony, they reveal within, behind, 
and around it essential peace

shift of perspecive from the pov of `central cause` to the 
`turbulation of the peripheral effects` is represented in the
fall of adam and eve in the garden of eden.


