Cosmogenic Cycle - Transformations of the Hero - Childhood 
of the Human Hero 

earlier culture hero of snake body and bull head carried within
him from birth spontaneous creative power of the natural world. 
that was meaning of his form. 

The man hero, on the other hand, must "descend" to re-establish
connection with the infrahuman. This is the sense, as we
have seen, of the adventure of the hero, 

makers of legends have rested content to regard the world's 
greatest heros as mere human beings who broke past horizons 
and return with a boon as any man with equal faith and courage
might have found. 

On the contrary, the tendency has always been to endow the hero
with extraordinary powers from the moment of birth, or even 
the moment of conception. 

The whole hero life is shown to have been a pageant of marvels
with the great central adventure as its culmination. 

this accords with view that herohood is predestined, rather than
simply achieved, and opens the problem of relationships of 
biography to character. 

in the adventure of hero, we regarded redemptive deed from the 
first standpoint, which may be called the psychological

in present chapter, therefor, we shall consider first the 
miraculous childhood, by which it is shown that a special 
manifestation of teh immanent divine principle has become 
incarnate in teh world, and then, the various life roles 
through which the hero may enact his work of destiny. 

These vary in magnitude, according to the needs of time

hero's first task is to experience consciously the antecedent
stages of the cosmogenic cycle; break back through the epochs
of emanation. 

his second is the return from that abyss to the plane of 
contemporary life, to serve as human transformer of demiurgic
potentials

deeds of the hero in the secon dpart of his personal cycle will
be proportionate to the depths of his descent during the first

eg sons of clam wife came up from animal level; their physical 
beauty was superlative
buddha broke past even the zone of creative gods and came back
from the void, he announced salvation from the cosmogenic round.

if deeds of actual historical figure proclaim him to have been 
a hero, builders of his legend will invent for him appropriate 
adventures in depth. 

these will pictured as journeys into miraculous realms, and are 
to be interpreted as symbolic, on the one hand, of descents
into the night-sea of the psyche, and on the other, of the 
realms or aspects of man's destiny that are made manifest in the
respective lives

eg King sargon of agade, chandragupta, pope gregory the great, 
charlemagne,

each of those biographies exhibits variously rationalized theme
of infantile exile and return, this is prominent feature in all
legends, folk tale, and myth. usually effort is made to give it
some semblance of physical plausability. 

when hero in question is great patriarch, wizard, prophet, or
incarnation, wonders are permitted to develop beyond all bounds

folk tales commonly support or supplant this theme of the exile
with that of the despised one, or handicapped: abused youngest son
or daugher, the orphan, stepchild, ugly duckling or the squire of
low degree

child of destiny has to face a long period of obscurity(being unknown)
this is a time of extreme danger, impediment, or disgrace
comonly thrown inward to his own depths or outward to the unknown, 
either way, what he touches is a darkness unexplored

that is a zone of unsuspected presences, benign as well as malignant, 
an angel appears, helpful animal, fisherman, a hunter, crone, or peasant

fostered in animal school/ like siegfied, below ground among gnomes
that nourish the roots of the three of life, or again, alon in some
little room, young world apprentice learns lesson of the seed powers, 
which reside just beyond the sphere of the measured and the named. 

myths agree that an extraordinary capacity is required to face and 
survive such experience, infancy is always bound in anecdotes
of precocious strength, cleverness, and wisdom. 

the conclusion of the childhood cycle is the return or recognition
of the hero, when, after a long period of obscurity, his true character
is revealed. this may precipitate considerable crisis: for it amounts
to an emergence of powers hitherto excluded from human life. 
earlier patterns break to fragments or dissolve; disaster greets the 
eye.
yet after moment of apparent havoc, creative value of the new factor
comes to view, and world takes shape again in unsuspected glory.
this theme of crucifixion-resurrection can be illustrated either on 
the body of the hero himself- or in his effects upon his world. 



