Cosmogenic Cycle The Universal ROund


just like the consciousness that rests at night and mysteriously
wakes, so is the myth .

the universe is precipitated out of, and rests upon the 
timelessness back into which it again dissolves. 

as mental and physical health depends on flow of vital forces
from the unconscious dark into the field of waking day, 
so is the myth. 

continuance of the cosmic power is assured only by a controlled
flow of power from the source

gods are symbolic personification of the laws governing this flow.
gods come into existence with the dawn of the world and dissolve
with the twilight. gods are not eternal in the sense that 
night is eternal, only from shorter span of human existence
does the round of cosmogenic eon seem to endure

cosmogenic cycle is normally represented as repeating itself. 

during each round lesser dissolutions are commonly incuded, just 
like cycle of sleep and waking throughout a lifetime. 

according to stoic doctrine of cyclic conflagration, all 
souls are resolved inot world soul/primal fire. 

when a universal dissolution is concluded, formation of new 
universe begins, and all things repeat themselves, every 
divinity, every person, playing again his former part. 

example of cosmogenic round is presented in the mythology of jains

at the beginning there were happy times, each happy time is lesser
than the preceding time. until happy times slowly change into 
unendurable one, where the destruction will happen, that will 
refresh the world to its peak of happy times. 

philosophical formula illustrated by the cosmogenic cycle is that
of the circulation of consciousness through the three planes of
being, 
first is waking, cognitive of hard, growss, facts of outer universe, 
illuminated by light of sun and common to all 

second is that of dream experience: cognitive of fluid, subtle
forms of private interior world, self luminous and of one substance
with the dreamer

thrd is of deep sleep: dreamless, profoundly blissful 

first are encountered instructive experiences of life wherein
it is digested, assimilated to the innerforces of dreamer in
the second plane, and enjoyed and known unconsciously in the 
3rd plane, in the "space within the heart", room of the inner
controller, source and end of all 

cosmogenic cycle is to be understood as the passage of universal
consciousness from deep sleep zone of the unmanifest through dream
to the full day of waking then back again to dream up to the 
timeless dark. just like the experience of every living being,
so is the cosmos. 

cosmogenic cycle pulses forth into manifestation and back into
non manifestation amidst silence of the unknown. 

hindus represent this in syllable AUM
A represents waking consciousness,
U dream consciousness
M deepsleep 

silence surrounding is unknown: simply "the fourth" 
syllable itself is god as creator-preserver-destroyer, but silence
is god eternal, absolutely uninvolved in opening and closing of 
the round. 

myth still remains necessarily with the cycle, but represents
this cycle as surrounded and spread by the silence. 

myth is revelation of gathering of silence within and around 
every atom of existence. 

myth is directing of the mind and heart, by means of profoundly 
informed figurations, to that ultimate mystery which fills and 
surrounds all existence. 

mythology is directing the mind to this unmanifest whch is 
beyond the eye. 


