Cosmogenic Cycle - Transformations of the Hero - Hero as a Warrior 

place of heros birth, or remote land of exile from which he returns
to perform his adult deeds among men, is the mid-point or navel of
the world. 

mythological hero is the champion not of things become but of things
becoming, dragon to be slain by him is precisely the monster of 
the status quo, 

from obscurity the hero emerges, but the enemy is great and conspicuous
in the seat of power, he is enemy, dragon, tyrant, because he 
turns to his own advantage the authority of his position.


he is proud because he things of his strength as his own; thus he is 
in the clown role; for it is his destiny to be tricked. 

mythological hero, reappearing from the darkness that is the source
of the shapes of the day, brings a knowledge of the secret of tyrant's 
doom.

with a gesture as simple as pressing of a button, he annihilates the 
impressive configuration. 

hero deed is a continuous shattering of the crytalizations of the moment
cycle rolls: mythology focus on the growing point.

transformations, fluidity, not stubborn ponderosity, is the 
characteristic of the living God.

great figure of the moment exists only to be broken, cut into chunks 
and scattered abroad. 

briefly, ogre tyrant is the champion of the prodigious fact, hero 
the champion of creative life 

world period of hero in human form begins only when villages 
and cities have expanded over land

many monsters remaining from primeval times still lurk in the outlying
regions, and through malice or desperation these set themselves against
the human community. 

those have to be cleared away, tyrnats of human breed, usurping to 
themselves the goods of their neighbors, arise and are the cause
of widespread misery.

these have to be suppressed. the elementar deeds of the hero are those
of the clearning of the field

warrior-kings of antiquity regarded their work in the spirit of the 
monster-slayer. this formula has been great device of self justification
for all crusades




