
CHAPTER 2 Refusal to the call

Often in actual life, we encounter dull case of call unanswered. Refusal
of the call makes adventure seems negative. Imprisoned in boredom, 
hardwork or 'culture', subject loses the power of significant affirmative
action and becomes victim to be saved.

His flowering world becomes the wasteland of drystones and his life will
feel meaningless even though he may through titanic effort which 
succeeded in building a famous empire. 

Whatever house he builds will be a house of death: a labryinth of walls
to hide his Minotaur. All he can do is create new problems for 
himself and await the gradual approach of his disintegration. 

"BEcause I've called and you refused, I also will laugh at your calamity;
I will mock when your fear come as desolation, and destruction come as
whirlwind; when distress and anguish come upon you"
"For the turning away of the simple shall slay them, and the prosperity
of fools shall destroy them" 

The myths and folk tales of the world make clear that the refusal is
esentially a refusal to give up what one takes to be a person he want. 
The future is regarded not in terms of an unreturnable series of deaths
and births, but as though one's present system of ideals, virtues, goals
and advantages were to be made secure. 

Daphne, Peneus daughter has rejected the call from Apollo. And she wished
that the beauty she has must be taken away from her, and she turned into 
a tree. In which Apollo named as his favorite tree and ironically 
recommended its leaves to the fashioners of victory wreaths.
Daphne went back to the image of her parent and there found protection 
-- like the unsuccessful husband whose dream of mother love preserved
him from leaving his wife. 

There are many examples of such desperate obsessive interest found
in the literature of psychoanalysis. What they represent is helplessness
to put of the infantile ego, within the sphere of emotional relationships
and ideals. One is bound in by the walls of childhood; the father and 
mother stand as threshold guardians, and the nervous soul, fearful of 
some punishment, fails to pass through the door and come to the birth 
in the world without.

Dr. Jung has reported a dream that resembles very closely with the image
of the myth of Daphne. 

The dreamer is the same young man who found himself in the land of the
sheep -- the land of unindependence. A voice within him says, "I must first
get away from the father"; then a few nights later: "a snake draws a circle
about the dreamer, and the man stands like a tree, grown fast to the earth"

This is an image of the magic circle drawn about the personality by the 
dragon power of the obsessive parent. 
Brynhild in the same way, was protected in her virginity, arrested in his 
daughter state for years, by his father Wotan which is the circle of fire
of all-father. She slept in timelessness until Siegfried came. \

Sleeping Beauty was put to sleep by a jealous hag (unconscious evil-mother
image). But not only the child, but her entire world went off to sleep;
But after long long years, there came a prince to awake her. 

A Persian city once was "enstoned to stone" -- all of the people because 
they refused the call of Allah.

Lot's wife became a piller of salt for looking back when she had been 
called from her city be Jehovah.

Some of the victims will be left forever(atleast, so far as we are told),
but others are destined to be saved. Brnhild was preserved for her
hero and Sleeping Beauty was rescued by a prince. Also, the young man 
transformed into a tree dreamed subsequently f the unknown woman who
pointed the way, as a mysterious guide to paths unknown. 

Not all who hesitate are lost. The psyhe has many secrets in reserve. And
these are not disclosed unless required. So is that sometimes the 
embarassing situation following an stubborn refusal proves to be the 
occasion of  a providential(opportune, god-intervened) of some unsuspected
principle of release. 

Determined concern in owns thoughts and feelings rather than external 
things(willed introversion), is one of the classic tools of creative genius and can be 
employed as deliberate device. It drives the psychic energies into depth 
and activates the lost continent of unconscious infantile and archetypal 
images. The result, maybe disintegration of consciousness more or less 
complete(neurosis, psychosis: the plight of spellbound Daphne);
but on the other hand, if the personality is able to absorb and integrate 
the new forces, there will be experienced an almost super-human degree of
self-consciousness and masterful control. 

This is a basic principle of Indian disciplines of yoga. It has been the 
way also of many creative spirits in the West. It cannot be described as 
an answer to the call. Rather, it is a deliberate, terrific refusal to 
respond to anything but the deepest, highest, richest answer to the 
unknown demand of some waiting void within: a kind of total strike, or 
rejection of the offered terms of life, as a result of which some power
of transformation carries the problem to a plane of new magnitudes where
it is suddenly and finally resolved.

This is aspect of the hero-problem presented in the story of 
Prince Kamar al-Zaman who refused to be married. He always talked to his
father that he don't want to marry. Until the king requested advise from
his wazir that he must be summoned before the wazirs and grandees and 
officers of state and captains for that he will not dare oppose his will.
But the prince stood by his decision to not marry, announcing it to the 
high ranking persons. 

THe king angered in his choice and told the guards to imprison him.
WHen all this was done, prince threw himself on the couch, sad-spirited,
and heavy hearted, blaming himself and repenting of his injurious conduct
to his father.

Meanwhile in the distant empire of china, the daughter of king ghazur, 
was in the similar case. When her beauty had become known to far far away
the kings had sent her messages to demand his daughter of marriage. 
But the princess had disliked every proposal. Until she warned her father
that she will kill herself if he ask him one more time. 

The king imprisoned his daughter in a house and shut her in a chamber,
appointing old women to guard her and forbade her to go forth to the 
Seven pLaces. Moreover he made it appeare that he enraged against her, 
and sent letters to all the kings, giving them to know that she had been
stricked with madness by an evil spirit. 

With the hero and heroine both following the negative way, and between
them the continent of Asia, it will require a miracle to consummate the 
union of this eternally predestined pair. Whence can such a power come to 
break the life-negating spell and dissolve the wrath of the tww childhood
fathers? 

The reply to this question would remain the same throughout the mythologies
of the world. For as is written so frequently in Koran: "Well able is 
Allah to save" 

The sole problem is what the machinery of miracle is to be. And that is a 
secret to be opened only in teh following stages of Arabian Night's enter-
tainment. 


----we often encounter dull case of call unanswered. 
----refusal makes adventure negative
----imprisioned by things(hardwork, boredom, culture) he loses power of significant
    affirmative action and becomes victim to be saved
----his flowering world will become land of drystones 
----his life will feel meaningless even though he do titanic effort which succeeded
    to build a famous empire
----refusal to call is refusal to giveup things he need to be a person he want
----future is regraded not in series of deaths and birth but as one's present system
    of ideals, virtues, goals and advantages were made to be secure.
----obsessive interest represent helplessness to put of infantile ego within sphere of 
    emotional relationships and ideals
----some of victimes will be left foreever but others are destined to be saved
----not all who hesitate are lost, psyche in us has so many secrets in reserved that 
    are not disclosed unless required. 
----sometimes embarassing situation following stubborn refusal proves to be occasion
    of god intervened cases of unsuspected release of secrets by psyche
----refusal is not answer to a call 
----refusal is deliberate, terrific refusal to respond to anything but to the deepest,
    highest, richest answer to unknown demand of some waiting void within, this is the 
    rejection to the offered terms of life, that results of some power of transformation
    carrying the problem to a plane of new magnitude where it is suddenly and finally
    resolved.