Chapter 4: The Crossing of the First Threshold

With the personifications of his destiny to guide and aid him, hero goes
forward in his adventure until he comes to the "threshold guardian" at the
entrance to the zone of magnified power. Such custodians bound the world
in the four directions -- also up and down -- standing for the limits of 
the hero's present sphere, or life horizon. 

Beyond them is darkness, the unknown and danger; just as beyond the 
parental watch is danger to the infant and beyond the protection of his
society danger to the member of the tribe.

The usual person is more than being contented, he is even proud to remain
within the indicated bounds, and popular belief give him every reason to
fear so much as the first step into the unexplored. 

The folk mythologies populate every place outside the normal traffic of
village with deceitful and dangerous presences. 

EXAMPLE
    Hottentos describe an orgre that has been occasionally encountered
    among the scrubs and dunes. Its eyes are set on its instep, so that
    to discover what is going on it has to get down on hands and knees
    and hold up one foot. This monster is a hunter of men, whome it tears
    to shreds with cruel teeth as long as fingers. They are said to hunt
    in packs

    Another example would be the Hai-uri, which progresses by leaping over
    clumps of scrub instead of going around them. 

    A dangerous one-legged, one armed, one-sided figure -- halfman, 
    invisible if viewed from the off side, is encountered in many parts of
    the earth. In central africa it is declared that such half-man gives
    medicines to person who defeated him, the man will be killed otherwise. 

END OF EXAMPLE


The regions of unknown (desert, jungle, deep sea, alien land etc) are
free fields for the projection of unknown content. 

incestuous libido(excessive lust) and patricida destrudo(father killing
rage) are thence reflected back against the individual and his society
in forms suggesting threats of violence and fancied dangerous delight
not only as ogres but also as sirence of mysteriously seductive, 
nostalgic beauty. 

EXAMPLE 
    The Russian peasants know hte "Wild Women" of the woods who have their
    home in mountain caverns where they maintain households like humans. 
    They are beautiful females with fine square heads, abundant tresses
    and hairy bodies. They fling their breasts over their shoulders when 
    they run and when they nurse their children .They go in groups.
    With cream(unguents) prepared from forest roots they can anoint and 
    render themselves visible. They like to dance or tickle people to 
    death who wander alone in the forest. And anyone who accidentally 
    changes upon their invisible dancing parties dies. On the other hand, 
    for people who set out food for them, they reap the grain, spin,
    care for the children and tidy up the house; and if a girl will comb 
    out hemp for them to spin, they will give her leaves that turn to gold.
    They enjoy human lovers, have frequently married country youths, and 
    are known to make excellent wives. But like all supernatural brides, 
    the minute the husband offends in the least their whimsicla notions
    of marital propriety, they disappear without a trace. 

    One more would be to illustrate the libidinous associaton of the 
    dangrous naughty ogre with the principle of seduction, is Dyedushka 
    Vodyanoy, the Russian "water grandfather". He is a skilled shapeshifter
    and is said to drown people who swim at midnight or at noon.
    Drowned or disinherited girls he marries. He has a special talent
    to gently persuade(coaxing) women ito his trap. He likes to dance on 
    moonlight nights. Whenever a wife of his is about to have a baby, he
    comes into the villages to seek a midwife. But he can be detected by
    the water that oozes out of his clothes. He is bald, immeasurable belly puffy cheeked with green clothing and a tall cap of reeds; but he can
    appear as attractive young man, or as some personage well known in the
    community. This Water Master is not strong ashore but in his element
    he is supreme. He inhabits the deeps of rivers, streams, and poinds, 
    preferring to be close beside a mill. During a day he remains concealed
    like an old trout or salmon, but at night he surfaces, spashing and 
    flopping like a fish, to drive his subaqueous cattle, sheep and horses
    ashore to graze, or else to perch up on the mill wheel and quietly
    comb his long green hair and beard.In the springtime, when he rouses from his long hibernation, he smashes the ice along the rivers, piling up great blocks. Mill wheels he is amused to destroy. But in a favorable temper he drives his fishherds into the fisherman's net or gives warning of coming floods. The midwife who accompanies him he pays richly with silver and gold. His beautiful daughters, tall, pale, and with an air of sadness, transparently costumed in green, torture and torment the drowned. They like to rock on trees, beautifully singing.

END OF EXAMPLE  

NOTE
    It seems that the general pattern would be an entity that gives miserable happenings to the people who disturb them, oppositely they
    give rewards for those who remind them and those who gives them good 
    deeds. They are treacherous, dangerous yet always gives concerns to 
    their precious. 
END OF NOTE

A man dreamed that he wanted to go to a wonderful garden. But before it 
there was a watchman who would not permit him to enter. THen he saw his
friend within, she wanted to reach his hand to her, over the gate. But
the watchman prevented that, took him by his hand and conducted to his 
home. 'Do be sensible -- after all!. You know that you musn't do that'.

This is a dream that brings out the sense of the first, or protective,
aspect of the threshold guardian. One had better not challenge the 
wactcher of the established bounds. And yet -- it is only by advancing 
beyond those bounds, provoking the destructive other aspect of the same, 
power, that the individual passes, either alive or in death, into the
new zone of experience. 

In the language of the pigmies of the Andaman Islands, the word 
oko-jumu (dreamer, one who speaks from dreams ) designates those highly
respected and feared individuals who are distinguished from their fellows 
by the possession of supernatural talents, which can be acquired only
by meeting with the spirits -- directly in the jungle, through extraord-
inary dream, or by death and return.

====POINT===
Adventure is always an everywhere a journey beyond the veil of the known
into the unknown; the powers(or the watchmen) that watch at the boundary
are dangerous;to deal with them is risky; yet for anyone with competence
and courage the danger fades. 
===ENDOFPOINT===

===EXAMPLE=== 

In the Banks Islands of the New Herbrides, if a young man coming back from
his fishing on a rock, towards sunset, can have a chance to see " a girl
with her head decorated with flowers inviting him from the slope of the 
cliff up which his path is leading him; he stands and thinks she must be
a mae(amphibous sea snake marked with bands of dark and light color, 
always more or less feared whenever it is seen); he looks more closely,
and observes that her elbow and knees bend the wrong way; this reveals
her true character, and he flies; if a young man can strike the temptress
with a dracaena leafe she will turn into her own shape and glides away as
a snake". But these very snakes, the mae, so greatly feared, are believed
to become the familiars(animal that serves the which, servant) of those
who have intercourse with them. Such demons -- at once dangers and 
bestowers of magic power -- are every hero must encounter who steps an inch
outside the walls of his tradition. 

===ENDOFEXAMPLE===


Two vivid Oriental stories will serve to illuminate the ambiguities of 
this puzzling pass and will show how, though the terrors will recede
before a genuine psychological readiness, the overbold(overconfident)
adventurer beyond his depth may be shamelessly undone. 

===EXAMPLE===

First is a caravan leader from Benares who boasted to conduct an 
expedition of his 500 carts into a waterless demon wilderness. Forewarned
of dangers, he had taken the precaution to set huge chatties filled with
water in the carts so that, rationally considered, his prospect of making
the passage of not more than 60 desert leagues was of the best. 

But when he had reached the middle of the wilderness, the ogre thought to 
himself. 
"I will make these men throw away the water they took" 

So the ogre prepared a cart to delight a heart, drawn by pure white ox, 
and he smeared the wheels with mud and came down the road from the opposite
direction. 

Before and after him are the marching demons who formed his retinue(group), 
their heads are wet, their garments are wet, decorated with garlands of
water lilies both blue and white, they carry a clusters of lotus flowers 
both red and white, chewing the fibrous stalks of water lilies, streaming 
with drops of water and mud. 

And when the ogre and the caravan leader came across each other, the ogre
politedly greeted the leader in a friendly manner.

"Where are you going?" he politely asked. 

"We, sir, are coming from Benares. But you are approaching decked with 
water lilies both blue and white, with lotus flowers both red and white in
your hands, chewing the fibrous stalks of water lilies, smeared with mud,
with drops of water streaming from you. Is it raining along the road by
which you came? Are the lakes completely covered with water lilies both
blue and white, and lotus flowers both red and white?" 

The ogre: "Do you see that dark green streak of woods? Beyond that
point the entire forest is one mass of water; it rains all the 
time; the hollows are full of water; everywhere are lakes completely
covered with lotus flowers both red and white."
 
And then, as the carts passed one after another, he inquired: 
"What goods do you have in this cart—and in that?

The last moves very heavily; what goods do you have in that?"

"We have water in that," the leader answered. 

"You have acted wisely, of course, in bringing water thus far; but beyond 
this point you have no occasion to burden yourself. Break the chatties 
to pieces, throw away the water, travel at ease." 

The ogre went his way, and when out of sight, returned again to his own 
city of ogres. Now that foolish caravan leader, out of his own foolishness, 
took the advice of the ogre, broke the chatties, and caused the carts to
move forward. Ahead there was not the slightest particle of water.For 
lack of water to drink the men grew weary. They traveled until sundown, 
and then unharnessed the carts, drew them up in a contracted circle, and
tied the oxen to the wheels. There was neither water for the oxen nor
gruel and boiled rice for the men. The weakened men lay down here and 
there and went to sleep. At midnight the ogres approached from the city 
of ogres, slew the oxen and men, every one, devoured their flesh,leaving 
only the bare bones, and, having so done, departed. The bones of their hands 
and all their other bones lay scattered about in the four directions and the 
four intermediate directions; five hundred carts stood as full as ever.


===ENDOFEXAMPLE===

===EXAMPLE===
The prince had just completed his military studies under a world-renowned
teacher. Having received the title Prince Five-weapons, he accepted the 
five weapons that his teacher gave him. On the way he came into a certain
forest. People at the mouth of the forest warned, him "Sir prince, do not
enter the forest, an ogre live here, named Sticky-hair; he kills every man
he sees" 

But the prince was confident and fearless as a maned lion. When he reached
the heart of the forest, the ogre showed himself. 
The prince used all of his weapons and all of them sticked into the Sticky
hair ogre, he used his right hand, left hand, his right foot, left foot, 
also his head. Yet all of them sticked into the sticky-hair. 

Ogre was shocked because the prince is not afraid of him. And he asked 
the prince. 

"Youth, why are you not afraid? Why are you not terrified with the fear of 
death? "

The prince answered: "Why should I be afraid? for in life death is absolutely
certain. What's more, I have in my belly a THUNDERBOLT for weapon. It will
tear insides into tatters and fragments and will kill you. In that case
we will both perish. Thats why Im not afraid!"

the reader must know, that prince was refering to the Weapon of Knowledge
that was within him. Indeed, this young hero was none other than the Future
BUdda, in an earlier incarnation. 

THe ogre let go of the prince. 

The future buddha preached the doctrine to him, subdued him, made him 
self-denying, and then transformed him into a spirit entitled to receive
offerings in the forest. Having admonished the ogre to be heedful, the 
youth departed from the forest, and at the mouth of the forest told his
story to human beings, then went his way. 
===ENDOFEXAMPLE===

As a symbol of the world to which 5 senses glue us, and which cannot 
be pressed aside by the actions of the physical organs. Sticky Hair 
was subdued only when the Future Buddha resorted to the unnamed, invisible
sixth: the divine thunderbold of known of the transcendent principle, 
which is beyond the phenomenal realms of names and forms. Therefore the
situation changed. He was no longer caught, but released; for that which 
he now remembered himself to be is ever free. The force of the monster 
of phenomenality was dispelled, and he was rendered self-denying. Self-
denying, he became divine -- a spirit entitled to receive offerings -- as
is the world itself when known, not as final but as mere name and form of 
that which transcends, yet is immanent within, all names and forms. 

The "wall of paradies" which conceals god from human sight, is described
by nicholas of cusa as constitued of the "coincidence of opposites" , its
gate being guarded by "the highest spirit of reason, who bars the way until
he has been overcome". The pairs of opposites (being and not being, life
and death, beauty and ugliness, good and evil, and other polarities that
bind the faculties to hope and fear, and link the organs of actions to 
deeds of defense and acquisition) are the clashing rocks that crush the 
traveler, but between which the heroes always pass. 

This is a motif known throughout the world. The greeks associated it with 
two rocky islands of Euxin Sea, which clashed together, driven by winds;
but Jason in the Argo, sailed between, and since that time they have 
stood apart. 

The twin heroes of the Navaho legend were warned of the same obstacle by
Spider Woman; protected however by the pollen symbol of the path, and 
eagle feathres plucked from a living sun bird, they passed between. 

As the rising smoke of an offering through the sun door, so goes the hero,
released from ego, through the walls of the world -- leaving ego stuck
to Sticky-hair and passing on.



----with the help of supernatural aid/personification of his destiny to guide
    and aid him, he goes forward until he comes to threshold guardian at the
    entrance to zone of magnified power
----such figure bound the world in 4 directions also up and down, standing in 
    the limits of the hero's present sphere, or life horizon
----normal person is more than being contented and even proud to remain in his
    normal sphere, popular beliefs give him every reason to fear to step into 
    the unexplored.
----unknown places are always populated with deceitful and dangerous presences
----unknown presences can be projected in the regions of unknown(desert, jungle
    deep see, alien land)
----excessive lust and father kiling rage are reflected bakc to individual and
    to his society in forms of threats of violence and fancied dangerous delight
    not only as ogres byt also as sirence of mysteriously seductive nostalgic 
    beauty.
----it seems that the general patter would be an entity that gives miserable 
    happenings to people who disturb them
----oppositely they give rewards who remind them and who gives them good deeds
----they are treacherous, dangerous yet always give concerns to their precious
----one had better not challence the watcher of established bounds
----yet  only by advancing beyond those bounds, provoking destructive aspect of
    the same power that individual passes(either alive or death) into new zone
    of experience. 
----adventure is always an everywhere journey beyond the veil of known into the
    unknown; the powers/watchment that watch at boundary are dangerous; to 
    deal with them is risky, yet for anyone with competence and courage the 
    danger fades.
----though the terrors will go before a genuine psychological readiness, overbold
    adventurer beyond his depth may be shamelessly undone
----walls of paradise that conceals god from human sight is described as the 
    'coincidence of opposites' which is guarded by 'highest spirit of reason, 
    who bars the way until he has been overcome'
----the pairs of opposites(being and not being, life and death, good and evil, 
    beauty and ugliness and other polarities that binds faculties to hope and fear)
    are clashing rocks that crush the traveler, that between which teh hero always
    pass.