Chapter 3 Supernatural Aid

For those who have not refused the call, the first encounter of the 
hero-journey is with a protective figure(often a little old crone or
old man) who provides the adventurer with amulets against the dragon
forces he is about to pass. 

STORIES    
    In a tribe of Wachaga of Tanganyika, poor man named Kyazimba. 
    The benignant role of Spider Woman from the American Indians of
        the Southwest

The helpful crone and fairy godmother is a familiar feature of European
fairy lore; in Christian saints legends the role is commonly played by 
the Virgin. The intercession of a VIrgin can win the mercy of the Father.
The hero who has come under the protection of the Cosmic Mother(Virgin 
in christian) cannot be harmed.

EXAMPLES
    The thread of Ariadne brought Theseus safely from the labyrinth.
    Beatrice and the Virgin in Dante's Alighieri

The protective figure represents a benign, protecting power of destiny.
The fantasy is a reassurance(promise the the peace of Paraidse, which
was known first within the mother womb is not to be lost) that it supports
the present and stands in the future as well as in the past. 
That though omnipotence may seem to be endangered by the threshold passages
and life awakenings, protective power is always and ever present within
the sanctuary of the heart and even existing within, or just behind, the
unfamiliary features of the world. 

One has only to know and trust, and the ageless guardians will appear.
Having responded to his own call, and continiung to follow courageously as
the consequences unfold, the hero finds all the forces of the unconscious
(unknown forces) at his side. Mother Nature herself supports the mighty 
task. And in so far as the hero's act coincides with that for which his 
society itself is ready, he seems to ride on the great thythm of the 
historical process.

Not infrequently, the supernatural herlper is masculin in form. In fairy
lore it may be some little fellow of the wood, some wizard, hermit, 
shepherd or smith, who appears to supply the amulets and advice that the 
her will require. The higher mythologies develop the role in the great
figure of the guide, the teacher, the ferryman, the conductor of souls
to the afterworld. 

In classical myth this is Hermes-Mercyry, in Egyptian usualy Thoth
(ibis god); in Christian, the Holy Ghost.

The helper typically appears to anyone who responded to the call. The call
in fact was a first announcement of the coming of this initiatory priest.
But even to those who apparently have hardened their hearts the
supernatural guardian may appear, for as we have seen : "well able is 
allah to save" 

And so it happened, as it were by chance, that in the ancient and deserted tower where Kamar al-Zaman, the Persian prince, lay sleeping, there was an old Roman well, and this was inhabited by a Jinniyah of the seed of Iblis the Accursed, by name Maymunah, daughter of Al-Dimiryat, a renowned king of the Jinn. And as Kamar al-Zaman continued sleeping till the first third of the night, Maymunah came up out of the Roman well and made for the firmament, thinking to listen by stealth to the converse of the angels; but when she reached the mouth of the well, and saw a light shining in the tower room, contrary to custom, she marveled, drew nigh, entered within the door, and beheld the couch spread, whereon was a human form with a wax candle burning at his head and the lantern at his feet. She folded her wings and stood by the bed, and, drawing back the coverlid, discovered Kamar al-Zaman's face. And she was motionless for a full hour in admiration and wonderment, "Blessed be Allah," she exclaimed when she recovered, "the best of Creators!" for she was of the true-believing Jinn.

Then she promised herself that she would do no hurt to Kamar al-Zaman, and became concerned lest, resting in this desert place, he should be slain by one of her relatives, the Marids

Now as chance or destiny would have it, the soaring Ifritah Maymunah suddenly heard in her neighborhood the noisy flapping of wings. Directing herself by the sound, she found it coming from an Ifrit called Dahnash. So she swooped down on him like a sparrow hawk, and when he was aware of her and knew her to be Maymunah, the daughter of the king of the Jinn, he was sore afraid, and his side muscles quivered, and he implored her to forbear. But she challenged him to declare whence he should be coming at this hour of the night. He replied that he was returning from the Islands of the Inland Sea in the parts of China, the realms of King Ghayur, Lord of the Islands and the Seas and the Seven Palaces. 

"There," said he, "I saw a daughter of his, than whom Allah hath made none fairer in her time." And he launched into great praise of the Princess Budur. "She hath a nose," said he, "like the edge of a burnished blade and cheeks like purple wine or anemones blood-red: her lips as coral and cornelian shine and the water of her mouth is sweeter than old wine; its taste would quench hell's fiery pain. Her tongue is moved by wit of high degree and ready repartee: her breast is seduction to all that see (glory be to Him Who fashioned it and finished it!); and joined thereto are two upper arms smooth and rounded.

The celebration of her beauty continued, and when Maymunah had heard it all she remained silent in astonishment. Dahnash resumed, and described the mighty king, her father, his treasures, and the Seven Palaces, as well as the history of the daughter's refusal to wed. "And I," said he, "O my lady, go to her every night and take my fill of feeding my sight on her face and I kiss her between the eyes: yet, of my love to her, I do her no hurt." He desired Maymunah to fly back with him to China and look on the beauty, loveliness, stature, and perfection of proportion of the princess. "And after, if thou wilt," said he, "chastise me or enslave me; for it is thine to bid and to forbid." 

Maymunah was indignant that anyone should presume to celebrate any creature in the world, after the glimpse she had just had of Kamar al-Zaman. "Faugh! Faugh!" she cried. She laughed at Dahnash and spat in his face. "Verily, this night I have seen a young man," said she, "whom if thou saw though but in a dream, thou wouldst be palsied with admiration and spittle would flow from thy mouth." And she described his case. Dahnash expressed his disbelief that anyone could be more handsome than the Princess Budur, and Maymunah commanded him to come down with her and look.

"I hear and I obey," said Dahnash

And so they descended and alighted in the salon. Maymunah stationed Dahnash beside the bed and, putting out her hand, drew back the silken coverlet from Kamar al-Zaman's face, when it glittered and glistened and shimmered and shone like the rising sun. She gazed at him for a moment, then turning sharply round upon Dahnash said: "Look, O accursed, and be not the basest of madmen; I am a maid, yet my heart he hath waylaid.

"By Allah, O my Lady, thou art excusable," declared Dahnash; "but there is yet another thing to be considered, and that is, that the estate female differeth from the male. By Allah's might, this thy beloved is the likest of all created things to my mistress in beauty and loveliness and grace and perfection; and it is as though they were both cast alike in the mold of seemlihead."

The light became darkness in Maymunah's sight when she heard those words, and she dealt Dahnash with her wing so fierce a buffet on the head as well-nigh made an end of him. "I conjure thee," she commanded, "by the light of my love's glorious countenance, go at once, O accursed, and bring hither thy mistress whom thou lovest so fondly and foolishly, and return in haste that we may lay the twain together and look at them both as they lie asleep side by side; so shall it appear to us which be the goodlier and more beautiful of the two."

And so, incidentally to something going on in a zone of which he was entirely unconscious, the destiny of the life-reluctant Kamar al-Zaman began to fulfil itself, without the cooperation of his conscious will.36 