Chapter 5 The Belly of the Whale 

The idea that the passage of the magical treshold is a transit into a 
sphere of rebirth which is symbolized in the worldwide womb image of 
the belly of the whale. The hero, instead of conquering or conciliating 
the power of the threshold, is swallowed into the unknown, and would 
have appeared to have died. 


===EXAMPLE===
The eskimo of bering strait tells about the trickster hero Raven, how, 
one day, as he sat drying his clothes on a beach, he observed a whale
cow swimming gravely close to shore. He called: "Next time you come up
for air, dear, open your mouth and shut your eyes" Then he slipped quickly
into his raven clothes, pulled on his raven mask, gathered his fire 
sticks under his arm, and flew out over the water. The whale came up.
She did as she had been told. Raven darted through the open jaws and 
straight into her gullet. The shocked whale-cow snaped and sounded;
Raven stood inside and looked around. 

===ENDOFEXAMPLE===

This popular motif gives emphasis to the lesson that the passage of the 
threshold is a form of self-annihilation. But here, instead of going outward,
beyond the confines of the visible world, the hero goes inward, to be born
again. 

The disappearance corresponds to the passing of a worshipper into a temple
where he is to be quicked by the recollection of who and what he is, 
namely dust and ashes unless immortal.

The temple interior, the belly of the whale, and the heavenly land beyond,
above and below the confines of the world, are one and the same.

That is why the approaches and entrances to the temples are flanked and
defended by colossal gargoyles: dragons, lions, devil slayers with drawn
swords, resentful dwarfs, winged bulls. These are the threshold guardians
to ward away all incapable of encountering the higher silences within. 
They are preliminary embodiments of the dangerous aspect of the presence,
corresponding to the mythological ogres that bound the conventional world,
or to the two rows of teeth of the whale. They illustrate the fact that
the devotee at the moment of entry into a temple undergoes a metamorphosis.
He secular character leaves without a trace, he sheds it, as snake its 
slough. 

Once inside he maybe said to have died to time and returned to the World 
Womb, the World Navel, the Earthly Paradise. The mere fact that anyone
can physically walk past the temple guardians does not invalidate their
significance; for  if the intruder is incapable of encompassing the 
sanctuary, then he has to be disappeared. Anyone unable to understand
a god sees it as a devil and is thus defended from the approach.

Allegorically then ,the passage into a temple and the hero-dive through 
the jaws of the whale are identical adventures, both denoting, in picture
language, the life centering, life renewing act. 

According to Ananda Commaraswamy, "No creature can attain a higher grade
of nature without ceasing to exist". Indeed, the physical body of the hero
maybe actually slain, dismembered and scattered over the land or sea. 

===EXAMPLE===
The Twin Heroes of Navaho had to pass not only the clashing rocks, but 
also the reeds that cut the traveler to pieces, the can cactuses that 
tear him to pieces, and the boiling sands that overwhelm him. 
===ENDOFEXAMPLE===

The hero whose attachment to ego is already annihilated passes back and
forth accross the horizons of the world, in and out of the dragon, is such
a process like a king through all the rooms of his house. And in that place
lies his power to save; for his passing and returning demonstrate that 
throug all the contraries of phenomenality the Uncreate-Imperishable remains,
and there is nothing to fear. 

And the men who are determine to show the world the life-producing mystery of
slaying the dragon, have acted upon their own bodies the great symbolic
act, scattering their flesh, like the body of Osiris, for the renovation
of the world. 

===EXAMPLE===
The king of the south Indian province of Quilacare, at the completion of 
the twelfth year of his reign, on a day of solemn festival, had a wooden
scaffolding constructed and spread over with hangings of silk.

when he had ritually bathed in a thank, with great ceremonies and to the 
sound of music, he then came to the temple, where he did worship before 
the divinity. Thereafter, he mounted the scaffolding and, before the 
people, took some very sharp knives and began to cut off his own nose and
then his ears and his lips and all his members and as much of his flesh
as he was able. He threw it away and round about, until so much of his 
blood was spilled that he began to faint, whereupon he summarily cut his
throat

===ENDOFEXAMPLE===

The above example is a sacrifice that King Minos refused when he withheld
the bull from Poseidon. 

The value of sacrifice in many myths around the world.