chapter 1: The Call to Adventure

slightest mistake is one of the ways which adventure can begin
slightest mistake can reveal an unsuspected world, and the individual is drawn 
into relationship with forces that are not rightly understood. 

According to Freud, `stupid/careless mistakes` are not slightest chances - stupid/careless
mistakes are result of suppressed desires and conflicts. Mistakes are the rippples on the 
surface of life, produced by unsuspected springs. Mistakes may be very deep -- as deep to 
the soul itself. 
`Stupid/careless mistakes` may amount to the opening of a destiny. Thus in the fairy tale,

1. disappearance of the ball is the first sign
2. frog is the second,
3. the unconsidered promise is the third. 

===KEYWORD: HERALD=== 
As the preliminary manifestation(sign) of the powers that are breaking into play, 
the frog coming up as it were by a miracle can be termed the 'herald', meaning that
the event is viewed as a sign that something is about to happen. An appearance of the 
herald in time of crisis is the `call to adventure`. The function of the herald is
maybe to live, in the present or die at the later moment of biography. It may sound 
the call to some high historical undertaking. Or it may mark the dawn of religious 
illumination(clarification). As understood by the mystic, it marks what has been 
termed `the awakening of the self`. 

In case of the princess of fairy tale, its just no more than the coming of adolescence. 
But whether small or great, no matter what stage or grade of life it is. The call always
rings up the curtain on the mystery of transfiguration(change of form/appearance into 
more beautiful/spiritual state), it can be a rite, moment, spiritual journey, which when
complete amounts to dying and rebirth. In the call, the familiar life horizon has been 
outgrown; old concepts, ideals, and emotion patterns, no longerfit; the time for the 
passing of threshold is at hand.

===NOTE==== 
When preliminary signs of powers appear, herald appears. Herald can live in present moment
or die in the later moment. The appearance of the Herald in time of crisis is the `Call
to an Adventure`. The Call of Adventure can be high historical undertaking or mark the dawn
of religious illumination(clarification). As understood by mystic, it marks what has been 
termed `the awakening of the self`.

Whether the situation exceeds the limit of the threshold where the familiar life has no
use anymore, call to a journey happens. 

===END OF NOTE====

Typical of circumstances of the call are the dark forest, the great tree, the spring with
continuous sound of flowing water, and the hateful, underestimated appearance of teh carrier
of the power of destiny. Which we recognize it as the symbols of the World Navel.

The frog, the little dragon, is the nursery counterpart of the underworld serpent whose head
supports the eart and who represents the life-progenitive(reproductive power, with quality 
offspring), demiurgic powers of the abbys

===DICTIONARY===
DEMIURGE - is an artisan like figure responsible for fashion and maintenance of the physical 
universe.

The frog comes up with the little sun ball, at this moment, resembling the great Chinese Dragon
of the East, dellivering the rising sun in his jaws, or the frog, on whose head rides the 
handsome young immortal, Han Hsiang, carrying in a basket the peaches of immortality.

Freud has suggested that all moments of anxiety reproduce the painful feelings of the first 
seperation from the mother eg. 

1. tightening of breath
2. congestion of the blood, etc of the crisis of birth

Conversely, all moments of seperation and new birth produces anxiety.

Whether it be king's child about to be taken from the felicity of her established dual-unity with
KIng Daddy, or God's daughter Eve, now ripe to depart from the idyl of the Garden, or again the
supremely concentrated Future Buddha breaking past the last horizons of the created world, 
the same archetypal images are activated, symbolizing danger, reassurance, trial, journey, and the 
strange holines of the mysteries of birth.

The disgusting and rejected frog or dragon of the fairy tale; for the frog, the serpent, 
and the rejected one, is the representation of that unconscious deep (so deep that bottom
cannot be seen) wherein all of the rejected, unadmitted, unrecognized, unknown or 
underdeveloped factors, laws and elements of existence are there.

==metaphors
those are pearls of the fabled submarine places of the nixies, tritons and water guardians
the jewerls that give light to the demon cities of the underworld
fire seeds in the ocean of immortality which supports the earch and surrounds it like a snake
the stars in the bosom of immortal night

The herald or announcer of the adventure, is often dark, loathly or terrifying, judged
evil by the world; yet if one could follow, the way would be opened through the walls of 
day into the dark where the jewels glow 

or herald is a beast, representativ of the repressed instinctual ability to produce new 
growth within ourselves, or again a veiled mysterious figure -- the unknown

example is the story of arapaho girl of the north american plains. 
===STORY===
    She spied a porcupine near a tree.
    She tried to hit the  animal but it ran behind and began to climb.
    The porcupine reached th etop of tree
    As she approached and was a bout to lay hands on it, tree suddenly lengthed and porcupine
    resumed climbing.
    Looking down she saw her friends craning up at her and beckoning her to descend
    but having passsed under the influence of the porcupineand fearful for great distance
    between herself and groun, she continued to mount the tree, until she became the 
    merest speck of those looking from below, and with the porcupine she finally reached sky.
===ENDOFSTORY===

next is a dream to illustrate the spontaneous appearance of figure of heraled in the psyche
that is ripe for transformation. this is a dream of a young girl whose companion has lately
died of consumption; she is afraid that she may have the disease herself.

===STORY===
"I was in a blossoming garden; the sun was just going down with a blood-red glow. Then 
there appeared before me a black, noble knight, who spoke to me with a very serious, deep 
and frightening voice: 'Wilt thou go with me?' Without attending my answer, he took me by 
the hand, and carried me away."
===ENDOFSTORY===

Where dream or myth, in these adventures these is an atmosphere of irresistible fascination
about the figure that appears suddenly as guide, marking a new period, a new stage, in the 
biography.

That which to be faced, and is somehow familiar to the unconscious personality, makes itself
known.
What things formely was meaningful to the hero may become strangely emptied of value.
And even though the hero returns for a while to his familiar occupations, they maybe found
unfruitful.

A series of signs of (increasing quality of being interesting)(force) will become 
visible until the calling can no longer be denied.

The first stage of the journey, which we designated "call to adventure" signifies that 
destiny has summoned the hero and transferred his spiritual center of gravity a.k.a
need/interest from within the pale of his society to an unknown place. 

This place of both treasure and danger maybe variously represented as distant land,
forest, kingdom underground, beneath waves or above the sky, a secret island, 
lofty mountaintop, or profound dream state. But that place is always a place of strangely
fluid and beings with differents forms or stages, unimaginable torments, superhuman deeds,
and impossible delight. 

The hero can go forth of his own volition to accomplish the adventure,
or he can be carried or sent abroad by some benign or malignant agent.
The adventure may begin as mere blunder, or still maybe only casually strolling,
when some passing phenomenon catches the wandering eye and lures one away from the frequented
paths of man. Examples might be multiplied, ad infinitum, from every corner of the world.