==revision part==

the monomyth

all animals remain the longest on mother's breast
unfortunate father is often experienced as an enemy, as he is the first intrusion of excellent situation within the womb
unconscious sends down all sorts of bad things/thoughts into the mind.
they are not jewels but also dangerous jinn abide: 'the inconvenient or resisted psychological powers that we have not thoughts or dared to integrate into our lives'
they may remain unsuspected and then dangerous messengers begin to appear in the brain. they are dangerous because they threated the fabric of security that we built for ourselves and for our family.
they are fiendishly fascinating too, for they carry keys that open the whole real of the desired and feared adventure that leads to the discovery of oneself.
destruction of the world that we have built and reconstruction of the better human life is the lure, the promise and terror of these disturbing night visitants from mythological realm that we carry within

psychoanalysis(modern science of reading dreams) has taught us to pay attention to these unsubstantial(having little or no factual basis, solidity and reality) images
It has found their way to let them do their work.
the dangerous events that lead to danger of self development are permitted to come to pass under the protecting eye of the experienced initiate in the lore and language of dreams,
    who then enacts the role and character of ancient mystagogue, the initiating medicine man of the primitive forest santuaries of trial and initiation.
Doctor is the modern master of mythological realm
    his role is precisely that of the wise old man of the myths and fairy tales whose words assist the hero through trial and terrors of the weird adventure.
    he is the only one who appears and points to the magic sword that will kill the dragon terror, tells of the waiting bride and treasures, applies healing balm to the wounds
    and dismisses the conqueror back into the normal life;

the purpose of the numerous strange rituals that have been reported is not to change consciously but to change unconsciously.
the so-called rites of passage  which happens during prominent place of life in primitive society(birth, naming, puberty, marriage, burial) are distinguished by formal and usually severe exercises of severance
    where mind is cut off from the attitutedes, attachements and life patterns of that stage being left behind.
    then follows  an interval of more or less extended retirement, during which are enacted rituals designed to 
    introduce the life adventurer to the forms and proper feelings of his new estate so that when the time has ripened for the return to the normal world
    the initiate will be good as reborn.

most amazing is that a great number of the ritual trials and images 
    corresponds to those that appear automatically in the dream the 
    moment the psychoanalyzed patient begins to abandon his infantile 
    fixations and to progress into the future. 

 Among the aborigines of Australia, for example, one of the principal features of the ordeal of initiation 
 (by which the boy at puberty is cut away from the mother and inducted into the society and secret lore of the men) is the rite of circumcision. 
 "When a little boy of the Murngin tribe is about to be circumcised, he is told by his fathers and by the old men, 
 'The Great Father Snake smells your foreskin; he is calling for it.7 The boys believe this to be literally true, 
 and become extremely frightened. Usually they take refuge with their mother, mother's mother, or some other favorite female relative, 
 for they know that the men are organized to see that they are taken to the men's ground, where the great snake is bellowing. 
 The women wail over the boys ceremonially; this is to keep the great snake from swallowing them."11—Now regard the counterpart from the unconscious. 
 "One of my patients," writes Dr. C. G. Jung, "dreamt that a snake shot out of a cave and bit him in the genital region. 
 This dream occurred at the moment when the patient was convinced of the truth of the analysis and was beginning to free himself from the bonds of his mother-complex."

It is always the prime function of mythology and rite to supply the symbols that carry the human spirit forward, in counteraction to those
constant human fantasies that tend ot tie in back.
In fact it may be well that very high incidence of neuroticism follows from decline among us of such effective spiritual aid.
We remain attached to images from our infancy that has not driven out, for this reason we are hesitant to walk in necessary passages to our adulthood.

In United States there is even a quality that evokes pity/sadness of inverted emphasis.
    And so while husbands are worshipping at their bodyhood shrines, becoming anything 
    their parents wanted to be. Their wives even after 14 years of marriage and bearing
    2 children are still searching for love, which can come only from the 
    ageless initiation symbolism is produced spontaneously by the patient himself at the moment of release.

sigmund freud stressed the passages and difficulties of first half of human cycle which is infancy and adolescence
where illustrated as the sun mounting toward its zenith.

c.g. jung on the other hand has emphasized the crises of 2nd option, that in order to advance
the shining sphere must submit to descend and disappear, at last into night womb of grave(in the coffin).
in the afternoon of biography, the normal symbols of our desires and fears become converted, into the opposites, for there no more challenge in life except death.

what is difficult to leave is not the womb but the phallus(penis) unless you are tired of life, when death calls with promise of bliss which is formely was lure of love. 

full circle, we come from and ambigous, enigmatical incursion into a world of solid matter that is soon to melt from us, like a substance of dream. 
Looking back what had promised to be our own unique, unpredictable and dangerous adventure, all we find in the end  
    is such a series of standard metamorphoses as men and women havve undergone in every quarter of world, in all
    recorded centures, and under every odd disguise of civilization.

in the story of the minotaur, the primary fault was not the queen but the king's
    the returning of the bull should have symbolized absolute selfless 
    submission to the functions of his role
    the retaining of it is an impulse to egocentric self-aggrandizement. 

just as traditional rites used to teach the individual to die to the past and reborn to the future, 
so that he may learn. Whether the man was a craftsman or a king, 
when in the act of refusing to a ritual, he cuts off himself from a larger unit of the whole community
and so on the One was broken into the many, 
fighting for each other for themselves, and could only be governed by the force

the figure of tyrant monster is the same everywhere(folk traditions, legends, nightmares, world)
and its characteristics are everywhere and essentially the same. 
-he is the hoarder of the general benefit
-he is the monster interested for the greedy rights of 'my and mine' 
-destruction made by him is described as being universal throughout his domain 
- the inflated ego of the tyrant is a curse to himself and his world- nomatter how his affairs may seem to prosper
-self terrorized, fear-haunted, alert at every hand to meet and battle back the anticipated aggressions of his environment, 
which are primarily the reflection os the uncontrollable impulses to acquisition within himself
the giant of self-achieved independence is world's messenger of disaster, even though 
in his mind he can entertain himself with humane intensions. 
- wherever he sets his hand there is a cry for a redeeming hero whose touch/existence will liberate the land. 

Hero is a man of self-achieved submission
Submission to what?  it is a riddle that today we have to ask ourselves and that is everywhere
the primary virtue and historic deed of the hero to have solved. 

the disintegration of society (by means that when society is disintegrating when it takes 
its cues for manners and customs from the underclass), will not be resolved by any scheme of

1. archaism - return of the good old days
2. futurism - programs guaranteed to render and ideal projected future
3. or even by most realistic, hardehaded work to weld together again the deteriorating elements 

only birth can conquer death, not the birth of the old one but the birth of something new. 
if we survive long enough, within the soul and body social, there must be a 
continous `recurrence of birth` to nullify relentless `recurrence of death`. 
That is only by means of our own victories, if the work of Nemesis is wrought
and we are not regenerated, doom breaks from the shell of our very virtue. 
after then peace will be a snare, war will be a snare, change will be a snare, 
permanence is a snare. 
When the day has come for the death's victory, there is nothing we can do, except be
crucified and ressurected; dismembered totally, and then reborn,

It is possible also for the principle of regeneration to be sought and found within
the very walls of the tyrant's empire itself.

toynbee uses terms 'detachment' and 'transfiguration' to describe the crisis by which
higher need for meaning of life is attained that makes possible the continuation of creation

1. detachment/withdrawal - radical transfer of emphasis from external to the internal world(self reflection)
a retreat from the desperations of the wasteland to the peace of everlasting realm that is within
but this realm is precisely the infantile unconscious, the realm we enter in sleep, that we
carry in ourselves forever.
All ogres and secret helpers of our nursery are there, all the magic of childhood. 
All the life-potentialities that we never managed to bring to adult realizations,
those other portions of ourselves are there; for such golden seeds do not die. 
If only a portion of lost totality could be dredged up into the light of day, 
we should experience a marvelous expansion of our powers, a vivid renewal of life. 
We should tower in stature. 

`Moreover if we could dredge up something forgotton not only by ourselves but by,
our whole generation or our entire civilization, we should become indeed the boon-bringer,
the culture hero of the day -- a personage of not only local but world historical moment.` 

The first work of the hero is to retreat from the world scene of secondary effects to those
causal zones of the psyche where the difficulties really reside, and there to clarify the 
difficulties, eradicate them in his own case and breawk through the undistorted direct 
experience and understanding of what C.G Jung has called `the archetypal images`, this is the
process known to Hindu and Buddhist philosophy as viveka, "discrimination" 

=====DICTIONARY====
archetypal images(carl jung) =  
1. as universal patterns or motif which come from the collective unconscious,
are the basic content of religions, mythologies, legends and fairy tales.
2. forms or images of a collective nature which occure practically all over the earth as
constituents of myths and at the same time as autochthonous, individual products of 
unconscious origin. 


===== In my own understanding === 
the first work of hero is to go away from the effects to the actual cause in his mind where 
the difficulties/problems reside, eradicate them and break through the undistorted direct 
experience and understanding of archetypal images.


The archetypes to be discovered and understood are precisely those that have inspired,
throughout the history of human culture, the basic images of ritual, mythology and vision.

These "Eternal Ones of Dream" are not to be confused with personally modified symbolic figures
that appear in nightmare and madness to the still tormented individual
 

===== DICTIONARY ===== 
Eternal ones of dream = refers to the mythical ancestores who wandered on earth in 
time called `altjiranga nakala' , "altjira" means (a) dream, (b) ancestor, beings who appear in dream,
(c) a story


Dream is personalized myth
Myth is depersonalized dream
They are both symboic in same general way of dynamics of psyche.
But in dream, forms are quirked by perculiar troubles of dreamer
in Myth, problems and solutions shown are directly valid for all mankind.

The hero therefore is the man/woman who has been able to battle past his personal and local
historical limitations to the generally valid, normally human forms. 
Such a one's visions, ideas, inspirations come pristine from the primary spring of human
life and thought.
Hence they are fluent not of present, disintegrating society and psyche, but of unquenched
source through which society is reborn. 
His second solemn task and deed therefore is to return then to us, transfigured, and teach
teh lesson he has learned of life renewed.

thinkingo fo a story, being born, or to be reborn -- in a sort of spiritual sense
requires determination. Perhaps some of us have to go through dark and devious ways 
before we can find the river of peace or the highroad to the soul's destination.

=====STORY=====

"I was walking alone around the upper end of a large city, through slummy, muddy streets lined with hard little houses," 
writes a modern woman, describing a dream that she has had. 
"I did not know where I was, but liked the exploring. 
I chose one street which was terribly muddy and led across what must have been an open sewer.
I followed along between rows of shanties and then discovered a little river flowing between 
me and some high, firm ground where there was a paved street. This was a nice, perfectly
clear river, flowing over grass. I could see the grass moving under the water. 
There was no way to cross, so I went to a little house and asked for a boat. 
A man there said of course he could help me cross. He brought out a small wooden box
which he put on the edge of the river and I saw at once that with this box
I could easily jump across. I knew all danger was over and I wanted to
reward the man richly. In thinking of this dream I have a distinct feeling that
I did not have to go where I was at all but could have chosen a comfortable walk 
along paved streets. I had gone to the squalid and muddy district because I 
preferred adventure, and, having begun, I had to go on.... 
When I think of how persistently I kept going straight ahead in the dream, it seems as though
I must have known there was something fine ahead, like that lovely, grassy river and the 
secure, high, paved road beyond. Thinking of it in those terms, it is like a determination 
to be born—or rather to be born again—in a sort of spiritual sense. Perhaps some of us have 
to go through dark and devious ways before we can find the river of peace or the highroad to 
the soul's destination."


==== END OF STORY ==== 


Hero should have elected to follow, not the safely marked general highways of teh day, 
but the adventure of the special, dimly audible call that comes to those whose ears are
open within as well as without, she has had to make her way alone, through difficulties 
not commonly encountered, 'through slummy, muddy streets'; she has known the dark night of
the soul.

It is remarkable that in the dream the basic outline of universal mythological formula of 
the adventure of the hero is reproduced, to the detail. 
These deeply significant motifs of the perils, obstacles, and good fortunes of the way, we 
shall find inflected through the following pages in hundreds of forms. 

The crossing first of open sewer. 
Then perfectly river flowing over grass,
The appearance of the willing helper at the critical moment, 
The high, firm ground beyond the final stream. 

These are the everlasting recurrent themes of the wonderful song of the soul's high adventure
And each who has dared to harked to and follow the secret call has known the perils
of dangerous, solitary transit.

    A sharpened edge of a razor, hard to traverse, 
    A difficult path is this --- poets declare. 

The dreamer is assisted across the river by gift of small wooden box. 
This is a symbol of her own special talent and virtue, by which she has been ferried across 
the waters of the world. 
The content of the box is unknown, but it is certainly a variety of Pandora's box -- that
divine gift of the gods to beautiful woman, which is filled with the seeds of all 
the trouble and blessings of existence, but also
provided with the sustaining virtue, hope. Because of this, the dreamer crosses to other
shore.

Many men and women choose less adventurous way of comparatively unconscious civic and tribal
routines. But these seekers too are saved by virtue of inherited symbolic aids of society, 
rites of passage(norms), the grace-yielding sacraments(traditions), given to mankind of old
by the redeemers and handed down through millenium.
It is those who know neither an innercall nor an outer doctrine whose plight truly is desperate; 
that is to say, most of us toay, in this labyrinth without and within the heart.

For centuries Daedalus has represented the type of the artist-scientist: that curiously
disinterested, beyond the normal bounds of social judgement, dedicated most of his time in 
his art. He is the hero the way of thought -- singleharted, courageous, and full of faith
that the truth shall make us free.


===STORY==== 
Ariadne, the daughter of King Minos, fell in love with the handsome Theseus the moment she
saw him disembark from the boat that had brought the pitiful group of Athenian youths and 
maidens for the Minotaur. She found a way to talk with him, and declared that she would 
supply a means to help him back out of the labyrinth if he would promise to take her away 
from Crete with him and make her his wife. The pledge was given. Ariadne turned for help, 
then, to the crafty Daedalus, by whose art the labyrinth had been constructed and Ariadne's 
mother enabled to give birth to its inhabitant. Daedalus simply presented her with a skein of 
linen thread, which the visiting hero might fix to the entrance and unwind as he went into 
the maze. It is, indeed, very little that we need! But lacking that, the adventure into the 
labyrinth is without hope. 

===END====


Furthermore, we have not even to risk adventure alone; for the heroes of all time have gone 
before us; the labyrinth is thouroughly known, we only have to follow the thread of hero 
path.
And where we had thought to find abomination(thing that causes disgust or hatred), 
    we shall find a god. 
where we had thought to slay another, we shall slay ourselves.
where we had thought to travel outward, we shall come to the center of our own existence
where we had thought to be alone, we shall be with all the world

=======TRAGEDY AND COMEDY=====

Happy familes are same, very unhappy family is unhappy in its own way 
With these fateful words, Count Leo Tolstoy opened novel of spiritual dismemberment of his
modern heroine, Anna Karenina. 

Happy ending is justly scorned as misrepresentation; for the world as we know yields
but one ending; death, disintegration, dismemberment, and crucifixion of our heart with 
the passing of the forms that we have loved. 

Pity is the feeling which arrest the mnd in the presence of whatever is grave and constant
in human sufferings and unites it with human sufferer. 
Terror is feeling which arrest the mind in the presence of whatsoever is grave and constant
in human sufferings and unites it with the secret cause.

Comedy as satire is acceptable, as fun it is a plesant haven of escape, but the fairy tale 
of happiness ever after cannot be taken seriously; it belongs to the never-never land of 
childhood, which is protected from realities that will become terrible known soon enough;
Just like the myth of heaven for the old, whose lives are left behind and the whose hearts 
have to be readied for last portal of the transit into the night. 
modern occidental judgement is founded on a tota misunderstanding of the realities
depicted in the fairy tale, the myth and the divine comedies of redemption.
These in the ancient world, were regarded as of a higher rank than tragedy, of a deeper
truth, of a more difficult realization, of a sounder struction, and of a revelation more
complete. 

Happy ending of the fairy tale, the myth and divine comedy of the soul is to be read, 
not as contradiction, but as transcendence of the universal tragedy of man .
Objective world remains what it was but, because of a shift of emphasis within the subject, 
is beheld  as though transformed.
Where formely life and death contended, now enduring being is made deliberately, 
different from the accidents of time like the destiny of the bubble in boiling water, 
or the appearance and disappearance of the galaxies in cosmos.
Tragedy is the shattering of forms and our attachment to the forms.; 
Comedy, the wild and careless, inexhaustible joy f life invincible.
The two are the terms of a single mythological theme and experience which includes both
and bounds them in the `down-going`  and the `up-coming` (kathodos and anodos), 
which together constitute the totality of the revelation that is life, and which the
individual must know and love if he is to be purged of the contagion of sin and death 

"All things are changing, nothing dies. Spirit wanders, comes from here and there, and goes 
wherever it pleases. For that which once existed is no mroe, and that which was not has 
comes ot be; and so the whole round of motion is gone through again(uulit?)
Only the bodies, of which this eternal, imperishable, incomprehensible self that is indweller
are said to have an end. "


=====To be continued====



THE HERO AND THE GOD 

Standard path of mythological adventure of hero is magnificatio of formula

SEPERATION - INITIATION - RETURN 

these can be named the nuclear unit of the monomyth

    A hero ventures forth from the world of common day into a region of
    supernatural wonder: fabulous forces are there encountered and a decisive victory is
    won: the hero comes back from this myterious adventure with the power 
    to bestow boons on his fellow man

stories normally follows the pattern of nuclear unit above
1. seperation from the world
2. penetration to some source of power 
3. life enhancing return


PART 1 
    CHAPTER 1 - Seperation and Departure
    Call to adventure - signs of vocation of the hero
    Refusal of the call- folly of the flight from the god
    Supernatural Aid - the unsuspected assistance that comes to one who has attempted adventure
    The Crossing of first Threshold
    Belly of the Whale - passage into the realm of night
    
    CHAPTER 2 - Trials and victories of initiation
    The Road of Trials -  dangerous aspect of the gods
    Meeting with the Goddess - bliss of infancy regained
    Woman as the Temptress - realization and agony of Oedipus
    Atonement with the Father
    Apotheosis
    The Ultimate Boon

    CHAPTER 3 - Return and Reintegration with Society
    Refusal of the Return - the world designed
    The Magic Flight  - escape of Prometheus
    Rescue from Without
    The Crossing of the Return Threshold - return to the world of common day
    Master of Two Worlds
    Freedom to Live - nature and function of the ultimate boon.

THE RETURN AND REINTEGRATION WITH SOCIETY, is the justification of the long retreat, the
hero himself may find the most difficult requirement of all.
In the return the hero maybe honored by his society, or be unrecognized or disdained.
He and/or the world in which he finds himself suffers from a symbolical deficiency. 
In fairy tales this may be as slight as the lack of a certain golden ring, 
whereas in apocalyptic vision the physical and spiritual life of whole earth can be represented
as fallen, or on the point of falling, into ruin.

hero of the fairy tale achieves a domestic, micro cosmic triumph
hero of myth achieves a world-historical, macro cosmic triump

Popular tales represent the heroic actioon as physical
Higher religions show the deed to be a moral; nevertheless there will be 
found astonishingly little variation in the morphology of the adventure,
character roles involved, victories gained.

IF one or another of the basic elements of the archetypal pattern is ommitted from a given
fairy tale, legend, ritual, or myth it is bound ot be somehow or other implied -- and
the omission itself can speak volumes for the history and pathology of the example, as 
we shall presently see.

Part 2 - Cosmogenic Cycle - unrolls the great vision of creation and destruction of the world
which is vouchsafed as revelation to the successful hero. 

Chapters 
    Emanation - treats of coming of the forms of the universe out of the void
    The Virgin Birth - review of the creative and redemptive roles of the female power,
        on a cosmic scale as Mother of Universe then again on the human plane as 
        Mother of Hero
    Transformations of the Hero - traces the course of legendary history of the human race
        through its typical stages, hero appearing on the scene in various forms according
        to the changing needs of the race
    Dissolutions = tells the foretold end, first of the hero, then of the manifested world

cosmogenic cycle is present with astonishing consistency in the sacred writings of all
the continents, give the adventure of the hero a new and interesting turn; 
for now it appears that the prilous journey was a labor not of attainment but of 
reattanment, not discovery but rediscovery. 

"The godly powers sought and dangerously won are revealed to have been within the heart of
the hero all the time. "

he is 
"king's son" - who has come to know who he is, and therewith has entered the exercise of his
proper power
"god's son" - who has learned to know how much that title means. From this point of view 
the hero is symbolical of that divine creative and redemptive image which is hidden
within us all, only waiting to be known and rendered into life;

===EXAMPLE AND ANALYSIS === 
For the one who has became many, remains the One undivided, but each part is all of Christ. 
I saw Him in my house. Among all those everyday things He appeared unexpectedly and became
unutterably united and merged with me, and leaped over to me without anything in between,
as fire to iron, as the light to glass. And He made me like fire and like light. 
And I became that which I saw before and beheld from afar. I do not know how to relate 
this miracle to you ...
I am man by nature, and God by the grace God.

comparable vision is described in the apocryphal Gospel of eve 

I stood on a lofty mountain and saw a gigantic man and another a dwarf; and I heard as it 
were a voice of thunder and drew nigh for hear; and He spake unto me and said: 
I am thou, and thou art I; and wheresover thou mayest be I am there. In all am I scattered
, and whensoever thou willest, thou gatherest Me; and gathering Me, thou gatherest Thyself

The two -- hero and his ultimate god, the seeker and the found -- are thus understood 
as the outside and inside  of a single, self-mirrored mystery, which is identical with the
mystery of the manifest world. 
The great deed of the supreme hero is to come to the knowledge of this unity in multiplicity
and to make it known.


WORLD NAVEL

The effect of the successful adventure of the hero is the unlocking and release again of the 
flow of life into the body of the world. The miracle of this flow may be represented in 
physical terms as a circulation of food substance, dynamically as streaming of energy,
or spiritually as manifestation of grace.

"“God is a metaphor for a mystery that absolutely transcends all human categories of thought, 
even the categories of being and non-being. Those are categories of thought. I mean it's as
simple as that. So it depends on how much you want to think about it. Whether it's doing you 
any good. Whether it is putting you in touch with the mystery that's the ground of your own being. 
If it isn't, well, it's a lie. So half the people in the world are religious people who think that
their metaphors are facts. Those are what we call theists. The other half are people who know that
the metaphors are not facts. And so, they're lies. Those are the atheists.”"


The torrent pours from and invisible source, the point of entry being center of the symbolic
circle of the universe, around which the word may be said to revolve. 
Beneathe this spot is earth-supporting head of cosmic serpent, dragon, symbolical of the 
waters of the abyss, which are the divine life-creative energy and substance of the demiurge, 
the world-generative aspect of immortal being. 
Tree of life, ie universe itself grows from this point. 
It is established deeply in the supporting darkness; golden sun bird perches on its peak;
a spring, inexhaustible well, bubbles at its foot. 
The figure may that of cosmic mountain, with city of gods, lotus of light.
The figure maybe that of cosmic man or woman;
For the hero as incarnation of God is himself the navel of world, the umbilical point 
through which the energies of eternity break into time. 
World navel is symbol of continous creation: mytery of the maintenance of teh world through 
that continous miracle of vivification which wells within all things. 

Circle can be represented as nest, or dwelling place of all the people, stand for the kinship 
group, the clan, the tribe.

architectural parts
1. Dome of heaven rests on the quarters of the earth, somtimes supported by four caryatidal kings
dwarfs, giants, elephants or turtles. The traditional importance of mathematical problem 
of the quadrature of circle: it containes the secret of the transformation of heavenly 
into earth forms. 
2. Heart in the home, altar in the temple, is central part of the wheel of the earth, 
the womb of the Universal Mother whose fire is the fire of life.
3. And the opening at the top of the lodge is the centerpoint of the sky, the sun door, 
through which souls pass back from time to eternity, like the savor of the offerings, 
burned in the fire of life, and liften on teh axis of ascending smoke from the hub of the
earthly to that of the celestial wheel. 
4. Sun - when filled is the eating bowl of God, inexhaustible grain, abundant with the 
substance of the sacrifice, whose flesh is meat indeed and whose blood is drink indeed.
And at the same time it is the nourisher of mankind, and is again the axis uniting
and turning the two wheels. Through the sun door the circulatin of energy is continous.
God descends and man ascends through it.

The world navel is ubiquitous(everywhere). And since it is the source of all existence, 
it yields the world's plenitude of both good and evil. Ugliness and beauty, sin and virtue
pleasure and pain, are equally its prudction.

Hence the figures worshiped in the temples of the world are by no means always beautiful, 
always benign, or even necessarily virtuous

"and likewise, mythology does not hold as its greatest hero of the merely virtous man" 

Virtue is prelude to culminating insight, which goes beyond all pairs of opposites. 
virtue kills forcely the self-centered ego and makes the transpersonal centeredness.
but after it has been achieved, what then of the pain or pleasure, vice or virtue, 
either of our own ego or of any other? 
transcendent force is then perceived which lives, in all is wonderful and worth, in all
of our due respect.

For as Heraclitus has declared: 
"the most unlike is joined together, and from difference
results the greatest harmony all things take place by strife" 

==strife is the keyword here

Blake:"The roaring of lions, the howling of wolvses, the raging of the stormy sea,
and the destructive sword are portions of eternity too great for the eye of man." 

==== i think that is metaphorical ====

=== a god named edshu(personification of world axis) has a hat with 4 colors, 
namely white, green, black and red he talked with 2 farmers and became friends
with them. When he left farmers talked about the color of the hat, one said
that it is black then other said that it is red. The argument between two 
developed and began to knife each other, and they were brought by neighbors
into the headman for judgement. Edshu was among the crowd, and when the headman
could not find a place for judgement, the trickster showed himself, and revealed
his hat. "The two could not help but quarrel", "I wanted it that way, spreading
strife is my greatest joy" ==== 

where moralist would be filled with indignation and
tragic poet with pity and terror
mythology breaks the whole life into vast, horrendous divine Comedy.
Its Olympian laugh is not escapist in the least but hard, with the hardness of 
life itself, which we may take it, is the hardness of God, the hardness of the
Creator. Mythology, in this respect, makes the tragic attitude somewhat hysterical
and the merely moral judgement shortsighted. 
Yet the hardness is balance by an assurance  that all we see is but the reflex of a 
power that endures, untouched by the pain. Thus the tales are both pitiless and 
storyless -- suffused with the joy of transcendent anonymity regarding itself in 
all of the self-centered, battling egos that are born and die in time.



===NOTES====
    There are rhythms to be followed in order to resonate in into ourselves namely
    rhythm of life  - life an death
    rhythm of psychology - conscious, unconscious
    rhythim of society - order, chaos   

chapter 1

CALL TO AN ADVENTURE
slightest mistake is one of the ways which adventure can begin
slightest mistake can reveal an unsuspected world, and the individual is drawn 
into relationship with forces that are not rightly understood. 

According to Freud, `mistakes` are not slightest chances - mistakes are result of 
suppressed desires and conflicts. Mistakes are the rippples on the surface of life, 
produced by unsuspected springs. Mistakes may be very deep -- as deep to the soul 
itself. 
Mistakes may amount to the opening of a destiny. Thus in the fairy tale,

1. disappearance of the ball is the first sign
2. frog is the second,
3. the unconsidered promise is the third. 

===KEYWORD: HERALD=== 
As the preliminary manifestation(sign) of the powers that are breaking into play, 
the frog coming up as it were by a miracle can be termed the 'herald', meaning that
the event is viewed as a sign that something is about to happen. An appearance of the 
herald in time of crisis is the `call to adventure`. The function of the herald is
maybe to live, in the present or die at the later moment of biography. It may sound 
the call to some high historical undertaking. Or it may mark the dawn of religious 
illumination(clarification). As understood by the mystic, it marks what has been 
termed `the awakening of the self`. 

In case of the princess of fairy tale, its just no more than the coming of adolescence. 
But whether small or great, no matter what stage or grade of life it is. The call always
rings up the curtain on the mystery of transfiguration(change of form/appearance into 
more beautiful/spiritual state), it can be a rite, moment, spiritual journey, which when
complete amounts to dying and rebirth. In the call, the familiar life horizon has been 
outgrown; old concepts, ideals, and emotion patterns, no longerfit; the time for the 
passing of threshold is at hand.

===NOTE==== 
When preliminary signs of powers appear, herald appears. Herald can live in present moment
or die in the later moment. The appearance of the Herald in time of crisis is the `Call
to an Adventure`. The Call of Adventure can be high historical undertaking or mark the dawn
of religious illumination(clarification). As understood by mystic, it marks what has been 
termed `the awakening of the self`.

Whether the situation exceeds the limit of the threshold where the familiar life has no
use anymore, call to a journey happens. 

===END OF NOTE====