Chapter 1 The Road of Trials

Once having traversed the threshold, the hero moves in a dream landscape
of curiously fluid, ambiguous forms, where he must survive a succession
of trials. This is a favorite phase of myth adventure. It has produced
a world literature of miraculous tests and ordeals. The hero is covertly
aided by the advice, amulets, and secret agents of the supernatural 
helper whome he met before his entrance into this region. Or it may be 
that he here discovers for the first time that there is a benign power
everywhere supporting him in his superhuman passage. 


===EXAMPLE===
Example of the `difficult tasks` motif is that of Psyche's quest for her
lost lover, Cupid. Here all of the principla roles are reversed. Instead
of the lover trying to win his bride, it is the bride trying to win 
her lover; and instead of cruel father witholding his daughter from the 
lover, it is the jealous mother, Venus, that hides her son, Cupid, from
his bride. 

When Psyche pleaded with Venus, the goddess grasped her violently by the 
hair and dashed her head upon the ground, then took a great quantity 
of wheat, barley, millet, poppy seeds, pease, lentils, and beans, mingled
these altogether in a heap, and commanded the girl to sort them before 
the night. THen she was aided by the army of ants. 

Venus told her next to gather the golden wool of certain dangerous wild
sheep with sharp horns and poisonous bite, that lives in an inaccessible 
valley in a dangerous woods. But a green reed instructed her how to gather
from the reed round about the golden locks shed by the sheep in their 
passage. 

The goddess now required a bottle of water from a freezing spring high
on a towering rock guarded by the sleepless dragons. An eagle approached
and accomplished the marvelous task. 

Psyche was ordered, finally to bring from the abyss of the underworld a
box full of supernatural beauty. But a high tower told her how to go down
the world below, gave her coins for CHaron and sops for the Cerberus, and
sped on her way. 

===ENDOFEXAMPLE====

Psyche's voyage to the underworld is but one of the innumerable such 
adventures undertaken by the heroes of fairy tale and myth. 


===EXAMPLE===

Among the most perilous are those of the shamans of the people of the 
farthest north(Lapps, Siberians, Eskimo and certain American Indian tribes)
when they go to seek out and recover the lost or abducted wouls of the sick.
THe shaman of the siberians is clothed for the adventure in a magical 
costume representing a bird or reindeer, the shadow principle of the 
shaman himself, the shape of his soul. His drum is his animal -- his eagle,
reindeer or horse; he is said to fly or ride on it. The stick that he 
carries is another of his aids. And he is attended by a host of invisible
familiars. 

This is what a ritual would be. Since the yonder world is a place of 
everlasting night, the ceremonial of the shaman has to take place after
dark. The friends and neighbors tather in the flickering, dimly lighted 
hut of the patient, and follow attentively the gesticulations of the 
magician. First he summons the helping spirits; these arrive, invisible
to all bt himself. Two women in ceremonial attire, but without belts and
wearing linen hoods,  a man without hood or belt, and a girl not as yet
adult are in attendance. 

The shaman
The shaman uncovers his head, loosens his belt and shoestrings, covers 
his face with his hands and begins to twirl in a variety of circles. 
Suddenly, with very violent gestures, he shouts: "Fit out the reindeer! 
Ready to boat!" Snatching up an ax, he begins striking himself about the
knees with it and swinging it in the direction of the three women. He 
drags burning logs out of the fire with his naked hands. He dashes three 
times around each of the women and finally collapses, "like a dead man."
During the whole time, no one has been permitted to touch him. While he 
reposes now in trance, he is to be watched so closely that not even a fly
may settle upon him. His spirit has departed, and he is viewing the 
sacred mountains with their inhabiting gods. The women in attendance 
whisper to each other, trying to guess in what part of the yonder world 
he now may be. If they mention the correct mountain, the shaman stirs 
either a hand or a foot. At length he begins to return. In a low, weak 
voice he utters the words he has heard in the world below. Then the women 
begin to sing. The shaman slowly awakes, declaring both the cause of the 
illness and the manner of sacrifice to be made. Then he announces the 
length of time it will take for the patient to grow well


===ENDOFEXAMPLE====

The women maybe unable to locate the shaman's position in the yonder world,
in which his spirit may fail to return to the body. Or the wandering 
spirit of an enemy shaman may engage him in battle or else lead him astray
It is said that there have been many shamans who failed to return.

On his laborious journey, the shaman has to encounter and master a number of
differing obstacles which are not always easily overcome. After he has 
wandered through dark forests and over massive ranges of mountains. where
he occasionally comes across the bones of other shamans and their animal
mounts who have died along the way, he reaches an opening in hte ground. 
The most difficult stages of the adventure now begin, when the depths of 
the underworld with their remarkable manifestations open before him .. 
After he has appeased(pacify by acceding to their demands) the watchers 
of the kingdom of the dead and made his way past the numerous perils, 
he comes at last to the Lord of the Underworld, Erlik himself. And the
latter rushes against him, horribly bellowing; but if the shaman is 
sufficiently skill he can sooth the monster back again with promises of 
luxurious offerings. This moment of the dialogue with Erlik is the crisis of
the ceremonial. The shaman passes into an ecstasy.


According to Dr. Geza Roheim: In every primitive tribe the medicine man 
is in the center of the society and it is shown that he is either neurotic
or psychotic, or atleast his art is based on the same mechanisms as neurosis
or psychosis. Human groups are often guided by their group ideals, and these
are always based on infantile situation. 

Also added: that the infancy situation is modified or inverted by the process
of maturation, again modified by the necessary adjustment to reality, yet it 
is there and supplies those unseen lidibinal ties and because of them no
human groups could exist. 

The medicine men, are simply making both visible and public the systems of 
symbollic fantasy that are present in the psyche of every adult member of the
society. "They are leaders in this infantile game and the lightning conductors
of common anxiety. They fight the demons so that others can hunt the prey 
and in general fight reality" . 

And so it happens that if anyone undertakes for himself the perilous journey
into the darkness by descending, intentionally or unintentionally, into the 
crooked lanes of his own spiritual labyrint, he soon finds himself in a 
landscape of symbolical figures(any one of which may swallow him) which is no
less marvelous than the wild Siberian world of the pudak and sacred mountains.

In the vocabulary of the mystics, this is the second stage of the Way, that 
of the "purification of the self", when the sense are "cleansed and humbled" 
and the energies and interests "concentrated upon transcendental things"; or
in a vocabulary of more modern truth: this is the process o fdissolving, 
transcending, or transmuting the infantile images of our personal past. In 
our dreams the ageless perils, gargoyles, trials, secret helpers, and
instructive figures are nightly still encountered; and in their forms we may 
see reflected not only the whole picture of our present case, but also clue 
to what must do to be saved. 

A dream of a patient was like this: " I stood before a dark cave, wanting to 
go in". "And I shuddered at the thought that I might not be able to find my way 
back" "I saw one beast after another". Emanuel Swedenborg recorded in his dream
book, for the night of October 19-20, 1744 "and they spread their wings, and
were dragons. I was flying over them, but one of them was supporting me" 

His own comment in his dream was as follows: "Dragons of this kind, which 
do not reveal themselves as dragons until one sees their wings, symbolizes
false love. I am just now writing on this subject" 

And a dramatist Friedrich Hebbel recorded, a century later (April 13, 1844) 
"In my dream I was being drawn with great force through the sea; there were
terrifying abysses, with here and there a rock to which it was possible to 
hold" 

Themistocles dreamed that a snake wound itself around his body, then crept up to 
his neck and when it touched his face became an eagle that took him in its talons
and, carrying him upward, bore him a long distance, and set him down on a golden
herald's staff that suddenly appeared, so safely that he was all at one relieved
of his anxiety and fear. 

The specific psychological difficulties of the dreamer frequetnly are revealed
with touching simplicity and force. 

"I had to climb a mountain. There were all kinds of obstacles in the way. I had
now to jump over a ditch, now to get over a hedge, and finally to stand still 
because I had lost my breath". This is a dream of a stutterer.

"I stood beside a lake that appeared to be completely still. A storm came up 
abruptly and high waves arose, so that my whole face was splashed"; a dream of a 
girl afraid of blushing (eurotho-phobia), whose face, when she blushed, would become
wet with perspiration. 

"I was following a girl who was going ahead of me, along the dark street. I could 
see her from behind only and admired her beautiful figure. A mighty desire seized
me, and I was running after her. Suddenly as a beam, as though released from a 
spring, came across the street and blocked the way. I awoke with my heart 
pounding." The patient is homosexual; transverse beam, a  phallic symbol. 

"I got into a car, but I did not know how to drive. A man who sat behind me gave me 
instructions. Finally things where going quite well and we came to a plaza, where
there were a number of women standing. The mother of my fiancee received me with
great joy". the man was impotent, but had found an instructor in the psychoanalyst.

"I was bitten by an infant." The dreamer was suffering from a psychosexual infantilism.


"A stone had broken my windshield. I was now open to the storm and rain. Tears came 
to my eyes. Could I ever reach my destination in this car?" The dreamer was a young 
woman who had lost her virginity and could not get over it.

There can be no question: the psychological dangerous through which earlier generations
were guided by the symbols and spiritual exercises of their mythological and religious
inheritance, we today must face alone, or, at best, with only tentative, impromptu and
not often very effective guidance. 

This is our problem as modern individuals. Nevertheless, in the multitude of myths 
and legends of the earth, we may yet see portrayed something of our still human course. 
To hear and benefit, however, one may have to submit somehow to purgation and surrender.
And that is our problem: just how to do that.

"The problem is not new," writes Dr. C. G. Jung, "for all ages before us have believed 
in gods in some form or other. Only an unparalleled impoverishment of symbolism could 
enable us to rediscover the gods as psychic factors, that is, as archetypes of the 
unconscious. . . . Heaven has become for us the cosmic space of the physicists, and the
divine empyrean a fair memory of things that once were. But 'the heart glows,' and a 
secret unrest gnaws at the roots of our being." 

The oldest recorded account of the passage through the gates of metamorphosis is the
SUmerian myth of the goddess Inannas descent to the nether world. 

Inanna from the great above set her mind toward great below
The lady abandoned heaven, abandoned earth, to the nether world she descended
Abandoned lordship, abandoned ladyship, to the nether world she descended

She adorned herself with her queenly robes and jewels. Seven devine decrees she fastened
at her belt. She was ready to enter the "land of no return", the nether world of death
and darkness, governed by her enemy and sister Ereshkigal. In fear, lest her sister
should put her to death. Inanna instructed Ninshubur, her messenger, to go to heaven
and set up a hue and cry for her in the assembly hall of the gods if afther three 
days she should have failed to return. 

Inanna descended, She approahced the temple made of lapis lazuli, and at the gate was 
met by the chief gatekeeper, who demanded to know who she was and why she had come. 

"I am the queen of heaven" 

Chief said, "the plae where the sn rises, why pray hast thou come to the land of no 
return? On the road whose traveler returns not, how has thy heart led thee?" 

Inanna declared that she had come to attend the funeral rites of her sister's husband
the lord Gugalanna; whereupon Neki, the gatekeeper bid her stay until he should report to
Ereskigal. 
Neti was instructed to open to the queen of heaven the seven gates, but to abide by 
the custom and remove at each portal a part of her clothing. 

Naked, she was brought before the throne. She bowed low. The seven judges of the nether
world, the Anunnaki, sat before the thron of Ereshkigal, and they fastened their eyes 
upon Inannai -- the eyes of death

===NOTE===
During the road of trials a part of the hero's ego/physical parts were removed at each
trial, therefore leaving indestructible part of himself at the end. 

===ENDOFNOTE===

Inanna and Ereshkigal, the two sisters, light and dark respectively, together
represent, according to the antique manner of symbolization, the one
goddess in two aspects; and their confrontation epitomizes the whole
sense of the difficult road of trials. The hero, whether god or goddess
man or a woman, the figure in a myth or the dreamer of a dream, discovers
and assimilates his opposite(his unsuspected self) either by swallowing it
or by being swallowed. One by one the resistances are broken. He must put 
aside his pride, his virtue, his beauty and life, and bow or submit to
the absolutely intolerable. Then he finds that he and his opposite are 
not of differing species, but one flesh. 

Or, as James Joyce has phrased it: "equals of opposites, evolved by a one-
same power of nature or of spirit, as the sole condition and means of its
himundher manifestation and polarised for reunion by the union of their
dislikements.

The ordeal is a deepening of the problem of the first threshold and the
question is still in balance: Can the ego put itself to death? For many-
headed is this surrounding Hydra; one head cut off, two more shall take
its place -- unless the right caustic is applied to the mutilated stump.

The original departure into the land of trials represented only the 
beginning of the long and really perilous path of initiatory conquests and 
moments of illumination. Dragons have now to be slain and surprising 
barriers passed -- again and again and again. Meanwhile there will be a
multitude of preliminary victories, unretainable ecstasies and momentary
glimpses of the wonderful land. 
