Initiation - Chapter 6 The Ultimate Boon

The prince of the Lonesome Island who remained 6 nights and days on the 
golden couche with the Sleeping Queen. The 7th day he went upand filled
3 bottles with water from the flaming well and ate some food. He left a
letter to the queen to inform her that there was someone sleepong here 
while she sleeps. And then he went out going back to his kingdom.

The easiness of the adventure being accomplished signifies that the hero
is a superior man, a born king. 

Where usual hero takes a test, the elect encounters no delaying obstacle 
and makes no mistake. 

The well in the story is the World Navel, its flaming water the indestruc-
tible essence of existence. 

The sleeping castle is the ultimate abyss to which the descending
consciousness submerge in a dream, where the individual life is on point of
dissolving into consistent energy: and it would be death to dissolve
yet also to lack the fire.

//the heros consciousness is descended to the ultimate
abyss where his life is to the point of dissolving into
undifferentiated energy
// in other words, indestructibility

the motif of inexhaustible dish that synmbolizes the life-giving, form building 
powers of the universal source, is fairy tale counterpart fo the mythological
image of the cornucopian banquet of the gods. 

while the meeting the great symbols of meeting with goddess and the firetheft 
reveals the simplicity and clarity of the status of antropomorphic powers in 
the realm of myth, they are not ends in themselves, but guardians/bestowers 
of the liquor/milk/food/fire/grace/indestructible life. 

Such imagery of indestructibility can be readily 
interpreted as psychological; which is also possible
to observe the symptoms of dawning 'mythology' of the 
state beyond the vicissitudes of time. 

these appear as reactions to and spontaneous defense 
against the body destruction fantasies that assail the 
child when deprived from the mother's breast. 

anxieties for the integrity of th body, fantasies 
of restitution, a silent, deep requirement for 
indestructibility and protection against the bad forces 
from within and without, begin to direct the shaping 
psyche, and these remain as developing factors in 
neurotic/normal life/spiritual efforts/ reliigous 
beliefs and ritual practices of the adult. 

The profession originates on the basis of infantile
body-desctruction fantasies by means of series of defence
mechanisms. 
the first formula is 
    1. abreaction in fantasy - my inside has already been destroyed followed by
    2. reaction formation  - my inside has not something corruptible and full of 
        faeces but incorruptible full of quarts crystals
second formula is projection - it is not Iwho am trying to penetrate into the body
but foreign sorcerers who shoot disease substances into people. 
third formula is restitution - i am not trying to destroy peoples insides, i am 
healing them. 

at same time the element of the body torn out of mother 
returns in healing technique to suck, pull or to rub 
something out of the patient

Another image of indestructibility is represented by
the idea of spiritual 'double' - external soul not 
afflicted by losses and injuries of present body, but 
exists in some place removed.

example would be the story of the ogre who gives clue 
killing him by breaking a hidden item on a remote Island

another would be the indian tale of kings daughter
who would marry the only man that found and awakened her
double at the bottom of the sea.

a great help desired for the indestructible body is 
uninterrupted residence in the paradise of milk that never
fails

mt olympush to the heavens, the gods and heroes banquet
on ambrosia

witnin the fairy hills of erin the deathless tuatha de
danaan consume self-renewing pigs of mananan, drinking
copiously of guibne's ale. 

in persia, gods in mountain garden of mt hara berezaiti
drink immortal haoma, distilled from teh gaokerena 
tree, the tree of life. 

its obvious that infantile fantasies which we all cherish
are still in unconscious play continually into myth, 
fairy tale and teachings of church,

that is helpfultous for the mind feels at home with the 
images, and seems to remember something already known 

circumstances of those seems to be obstructive too, 
because the feelings rest on the symbols, and resist 
every effort to go beyond. 

abnormal gulf between childishly blissful multitudes who
fill the world with piety and truly free breaks open at
the line where the symbols give way and transcended

that line is a line beyond which thinking does not go, 
beyond which all feeling is truly dead. 


the immeasurable teaching of supreme blessedness beyond
imagination comes to use clothed(hidden), in figures
that resembles to the imagined supreme blessedness
of infancy; hence the deceptive childishness of tales
also the inadequacy of any merely psychological reading

sophistication of being amusing or comig  of this infantile imagery 
wwhen inflected in skillful mythological rendition of metaphysical 
doctrine, emerges magnificently in hindu account of primordial battle 
between titans and the gods for the liquor of immortality

titans and gods were at the unendign battle for liquor of immortality
they were advised to work together to produce the amarita the 'nectar of
deathlessness'

they churned for thousand years
first thing to arise in the sea is black poisonous smoke called kalakuta
kalakuta requested to be drunk, which shiva did, turning his neck into 
blue, hence adressed as blue neck, nilakantha

churning resumed began coming out of inexhaustible depths precious forms 
of concentrated power. 
last to appear was skilled physician of gods dhanvantari, holding his 
hand the moon , the cup of nectar of life

battle for possession of invaluable drink has began
rahu managed to steal a sip but bbeheaded before liquor passes his throat
making his head immortal 

vishnu transformed himself into beautiful dancing damsel and charmed 
the titans

vishnu immediately transformed himself into a hero and helped gods drive 
away the enemy to the crags and dark canyons of world beneath

gods now din on amrita forever on the summit of central mountain of the world
mount sumeru

humor is the measurement of truly mythological as distinct from the more 
literal-minded and sentimental theological mood. 

gods as icons not ends in themselves, their entertaining myths transports
mind and spirit past them into the yonder void;  from which perspective
more heavily transported theological absolute truth appear to have 
only lures to teaching: their function is to cart the unskillful 
intellect away from its concrete clutter of facts and events to a 
comparatively rarefied zone, where as final boon, all existence(heavenly,
earthly, or infernal) may atlast be seen changed its form into semblance
of lightly passing, recurrent mere childhood dream of bliss and fright.

the gods and goddesses are to be understood as embodiments and custodians
of the elixif of Imperishable Being but not themselves Ultimate in its 
primary state

what the hero seeks through its intercourse with them is not finally 
themselves but their grace i.e power of their sustaining substance. 

the miraclous energy-substance is the Imperishable; names and forms
of deities who everywhere embody, dispence and represent it come and go
this is miraculous energy of thunderbolds of zeus, yahweh and supreme 
buddah

gods maybe oversevere, over cautious in which case hero must trick them of
their treasure

when in this mood even the highest gods appear as malignant, life hoarding
ogres, and the hero who deceives, slays or appeases them is honored as 
savior of the world.

example would be mahu-ika, the fire guardian vs maui
mahu-ika tossed maui multiple times, and lived
maui tossed mahu-ikaw multiple times, when mahu-ikaw is in the air he 
chanted this words: 'that man up there may fall right on his head'

mahu-ika fell down on his neck and died, maui took off his head and 
he possed the treasure of flame which he bestowed around the world. 

to this very day possibility of physical immortality charms the heart of 
man 

research for physical immortality proceeds from misunderstanding of 
trandition teaching.

on the contrary, the basic problem is: to enlarge pupil of the eye, so 
that body with its attendant personality will no longer obstructs the 
view. immortality is then experienced as present fact: 'it is here. it is 
here!' 

proofs will be these examples

"heavenly is like tao. tao is eternal. decay of the body is not to be
feared" 

japanese proverb: "gods only laugh when men pray for wealth"
boon bestowed to the worshipper is scaled to his stature and to the nature
of his dominant desire: boon is simply symbol of life energy stepped down
into the requirements of  a certain specific case. 

irony lies in fact that hero who won favor of gods may beg perfect
illumination, but what he generally seeks are longer years to live, 
weapons to slay his neighbor or health of his child. 

//example of midas has a wish of turning everything he touch into gold 
which is granted to him, his daughter turned into gold when she touched
him 

agony of breaking through personal limitation is agony of spiritual growht
many things help individual past his limiting horizons into spheres of
ever-expanding realization. 

as he crosses threshold after threshold, the importance of divinity that
he summons to his highest wish increases, until it absorbs cosmos.
Finally, mind breaks the bounding sphere of cosmos to a realization
transcending all experiences of form -- all symbolizations, all 
divinities: a realization of the ineluctable void. 

so it is that dante taken last step in his spiritual journey, he had still
one more illumination to experience, even beyond forms of father, son 
and the holy ghost. bernard signalled that he should look upward, but 
he was already becoming pure as he wished, entering more and more
through the  radiance of lofty light which itself is true. "different 
it is from all that are known, and it is beyond the unknown as well" 

that is highest and ultimate crucifixion, not of hero but of his god 
as well.. Here the father and son alike are annihilated -- as personality
-masks over the unnamed. just as figments of dream derived from life 
energy of dreamer, that represents fluid splittings and complications of
that single force, so do all the forms of all the worlds, whether
terrestrial or divine, they reflect the universal force of single 
mystery that is hard to understand: power that constructs atom and controls
the orbit of starts.

the font of life is core of individual, within himself he will findit
if he tear coverings away. 

gods of redeemed heavens raised their voices in acclaim of man hero who
had penetrated beyond them to the void that was their life and source



page 259