Initiation Chapter 4 Atonement with the Father

In most mythologies, the images of mercy and grace are rendered as
vividly as those of justice and wrath, so that a balance is maintained,
and the heart is kept rather than scourged along its way. 

Fear not! Says the hand gesture of god Shiva, as he dances before his
devotee the dance of the universal destruction.

Fear not! for all rests well in God, Know Me in all, and of what 
shall you be afraid? 

The magic of the sacraments, the protective power of primitive amulets
and charms, and the supernatural helpers of the myths and tales of 
the world, are mankind's assurance that the arrow, the flames, and 
the flood as not as brutal as they may seem.

For the ogre aspect of the father is a reflex of the victim's own ego 
--- derived from sensational nursery scene that has been left behind,
but projected before; and the fixating idolatory of that pedagogical
nothing is itself the fault why we are surrounded in a sense of sin, 
sealing the potentially adult spirit from a better balanced, more
realistic view of a father, and therewith of the world. 

Atonement(at-one-ment) consists in no more than the abandonment of that
self-generated double monster - the dragon thought to be a God(superego)
and the dragon thought to be a sin(repressed id).
But this requires and abandonment of the attachment to ego itself;
and that is what is difficult. One must have faith that the father is
merciful, and then a reliance on that mercy. Therewith the center of
belief is transferred outside of teh bedeviling god's tight scaly ring
and the dreadful ogres dissolve.

It is in this ordeal that hero may derive hope and assurance from the 
helpful female figure by whose magic he is protected through all of 
the frightening experience of the father's ego-shattering initiation.
For it is impossible to trust the terrifying father-face, then one's
faith must be centered elsewhere(spiderwoman, blessed mother), and 
with that reliance for support, one endures crisis to find that the 
mother and mother reflect each other, and are in essence the same. 


===STORY===
After the Twin Warriors of the Navaho departed from the Spider Woman with
her advicse and protective charms, they came a long way through many trials
and atlast they came at last to the house of the Sun, their father.
The door was guarded by bears and the advice of the SpiderWoman made the
bears crouch down again. 

After other obstacles, the father questioned their legibility of being his
sons until the final ordeal happened. It is the smoking pipe filled with
poison. A spiny caterpillar warned the boys and gave them something to put
into their mouths. They smoked the pipe without harm, passing it back and
forth to one another until it was finished. They even said it tasted sweet.
THe sun was too proud. He was completely satisfied. 
===ENDOFSTORY===


The need for great care on the part of the father, admitting to his
house only those who have been thoroughly tested, is illustrated of 
a story.

===STORY===
Phaethon was a son of a virgin and taunted by his playmates to search
the question of his father, so he set off across Persia and India to
find the palace of the Sun -- for his mother had told him that his
father was Phoebus, the god who drove the solar chariot.

When phaethon met his father, he requested that he drive the winged horses
for one day. The father told the son that no one has the power to take
his place in the chariot of fire.

Phoebus reasoned, Phaethon was adamant. Until finally he has the moment
to drive the solar chariot. 

Chariot with Phaethon as a driver brought catastrophe to earth. The
clouds evaporated. Earth bursts into flame. Mountains blazed; cities
perished with their walls; nations reduced to ashes. Libya became desert.
The nile fled in terror to the ends of the earth and hid its head, and it 
is hidden yet.

Mother earth lifted her voice and called upon Jove, the father of all 
things to save his world. Jove the Almighty Father, realized that he must
do something quickly or all will be lost. Thereupon he hurried to the 
zenith, took a thunderbold in his right hand, and flung it from beside
his ear. The car shattered, Phaethon, fire raging in his hair, descended 
like a falling star. And the river Po received his burning flame. 

The Naiads of that land consigned his body to a tomb, whereupon this epitaph.

====ENDOFSTORY===

The tale of overgenerous parenthood illustrates the antique idea that when 
the roles of life are assumed by the improperly initiated, chaos supervenes.

When the child outgrows the the popular peaceful place of the mother breast
and turns to face the world of specialized adult action, the child passes
spiritually into the sphere of the father -- who becomes the sign of future
task for his son, or of his daughters future husband. 

Whether he knows it or not, and no matter what his position in society, the
father is the initiating priest through whom the young being passes into 
the larger world. 

Formely, mother represented the 'good' and 'evil', so does the father.
But with complications like, the new element of rivals between the son
and the father for the mastery of the universe, and the daughter against
the mother to be the mastered world.

The traditional idea of initiation combines an introduction of candidate
into the techniques, duties, and prerogatives of his vocation with radical
readjustment of his emotional relationship to the parental images. 

The mystagogue/teacher(father or father substitute) is to entrust the 
symbols of office only to a son who has been effectively purged of all
inappropriate infantile mental/emotional energy allocation to person,
object, or idea. For whom the just, impersonal exercise of the powers will
not be rendered impossible by unconscious(or perhaps even conscious and 
rationalized) motives of exagerrating one's power/importance, personal
preference or resentment.

Ideally, the invested one has been deprived of his mere humanity and that
is representative of an impersonal cosmic force. He is the twice-born: he 
has become himself the father. He is competent, consequently, now to enact
himself the role of initiator, the guide, the sundoor, through whom one
may pass from hte infantile illusions of 'good' and 'evil' to an experience
of the majesty of cosmic law, purged of hope and fear, and at peace in the 
understanding of the revelation of being.


===EXAMPLE===
A boy dreamt that he was caught by canon and has been prepared alive as
a meal. In his dream the cook toook him out and gave him to a chief, who
was just going to bite him when he woke up.
===ENDOFEXAMPLE===

===EXAMPLE===
A civilized gentleman dreamt that he was having a meal with his wife. 
Which they prepared his second child, the baby to put him in a green soup
bowl and cooked thoroughly. 

They ate the cooked baby and asked her if she wanted him to do it and did
she really intended to have him for supper. 

She answered that the kid was well cooked and there was nothing else to do.
The husband was about to finish the last piece, when he woke up.

===ENDOFEXAMPLE===


The archetypa nightmare of the ogre father is made actual in the ordeals of 
primitive initiation eg. Australiian Murngin tribe. 

The boys are frighted and sent running to their mothers because The Great 
Father Snake is calling for their foreskins. The mother is place in a role
of protectresses.

A prodigious horn is blown called Yurlunggur that symbolizes to be the
call of the Great Father Snake who emerged from his hole. 
When the male come for the boys, the women grab up spears and pretend not
to fight but also to wail and cry. because the boys are going to be taken
and 'eaten'. 

Then they shown to the men's triangular dancing ground which is the body
of the Great Father Snake during many nights the numerous dances symbolical
of the various totem anestors, and are taught the myths that explain the 
existing order of the world. 

Also they are sent on a long journey to neighboring and distant clans, 
imitative of the mythological wanderings of the phallic ancestors. 
In this way, 'within' the Great Father Snake they are introduced to 
a interesting object world that is a compensation for the loss of their
mother; this time the phallus instead of the mother's breast is the
central point of the imagination.

The culminating instruction for the series of rites is the release of 
the boy's own hero-penis from the protection of its foreskin, through 
the frightening and painful attack upon it by the circumciser. The 
operation is swiftly performed, the fearsome figures retire immediately
from the lighted area, and the boy in more or less dazed condition is 
attended and congratulated by men to whose state he has now just arrived. 
"You youave done well", they say; "you did not cry out" 


The native Australian mythologies teach that the first initiation 
rites were carried out in such way that the youngmen were killed. 

The ritual is shown to be a dramatized expression of the Oedipal aggression
of elder generation; and the circumsicion, a mitigated castration. 

The rites provide also for the cannibal, patricidal impulse of the younger,
rising males, and at the same time reveal the benign self-giving aspect of
the archetypal father; forduring a long period of symbolical instruction,
there was a time when the initiates are forced to drink blood drawn out 
from the older men.

In this ritual the boys are held to drink the blood and blindfolded because
if he witness a ritual his father and mother will die. The blood is drawn
out from the older men and the young boy drinks it. Should his stomach
rebels the blood, his father holds his throat to prevent ejecting blood
because if it happens his family will die, the ramining blood is thrown
over him.


From this time sometimes the boy has forbidden to eat anything other than
human blood. Yamminga, the mythical ancestor made this law.

Frequently the men who give their blood faints and remain in coma for an
hour or more because of exhaustion. In former times, the blood was 
obtained from a man who was killled for the purpose and his portions of 
his body were eaten.

Dr. Roheim: Here we come as near to a ritual representation of the killing
and eating of the primal father as we can ever get. 

No matter how unilluminated Australian savages may seem to us, they 
symbolical ceremonials represent a survival into modern times of an 
incredibly old system of spiritual instruction, the far flung evidences
of which are to be found among the remains of the archaic centers of what 
we tedn ot regard as our own very special brand of civilization. It 
can be seen from a comparison between the Australian ritual to those
familiary to us from higher cultures that the great themes, the ageless
archetypes, and operation upon the soul remain the same.

The mystery of the apparently self-contradictory father is rendered
tellingly in examples

===EXAMPLE===
In a folktale told by the Basumbwa of east africa The Great chief death
whose one side of him was beautiful and the other side was rotting declared
one day the Universal Curse that the man will encounter such as
-man that goes trading will be robed,
-the woman conceives today will die with the child conceived
-man who cultivates will have crops perished

The following morning he pronounced the blessing because he pronounce 
benediction
-man born today will become wealthy
-woman who conceives today give birth to a child who will live to be old
-man who will trade may strike good bargains,
====ENDOFEXAMPLE===

===EXAMPLE===
Viracoca, rendition of the universal god shown that his tears flows 
through the springs of the earth. he is also a destroyer.
===ENDOFEXAMPLE===

The paradox of creation, the coming of the forms of time out of eternity,
is the germinal secret of father. I cannot be explained. Therefore, in 
every system of theology there is an umbilical point, where the possibility
of perfect knowledge has been impaired(eg the achilles tendon).

The problem of the hero is to pierce himself(and therewith his world) 
precisely through that point; to shatter and annihilate that key knot of 
his limited experience.

The problem of hero going to meet the father is to open his soul beyond 
terror to such a degree that he will be ripe to understand how the sickening
and insane tragedies of this vast and ruthless cosmos are validated in
the majesty of Being. The hero transcends life wit its peculiar blind spot 
and for a moment rises to a glimpse of the source. He beholds the face
of the father, understands -- and the two are atoned.

For the son who has grown really to know the father, the agonies of the 
ordeal are readily borne; the world is no longer a vale of tears but a 
bliss-yielding, perpetual manifestation of the Presence.

----this is the abandonment of the super and id, that requires an abandonment to 
    eto itself
----therefore he must have faith to his father
----hero may derive hope and assurance from the helpful female figure to protect him
    from ego shattering initiation
----at the end hero finds out that mother and father reflect each other and essentially
    the same
----when child goes out of the peaceful place of mothers breaast to face the world 
    of specialized adult action, he passes into the sphere of father
----father is the guide nd initiator through the another world
----hero must be worthy enough, as the opposite would bring chaos
----in australian tribes, father served as the guide and initiator into the adulthood
    of the boys(circumcision)
----the paradox of creation is germinal secret of father
----in every system of theology there is umbilical point where possibility of perfect
    knowledge has been impaired(achilles tendon)
----problem of hero is pierce himself through that point to shatter the key knot of 
    his limited experience
----the hero going to meet his father is open his soul beyond terror to make him
    understand that the insane tragedies of ruthless cosmos are validated by majesty of 
    being. the hero goes beyond this spot and rises to glimpse of source. He observes
    the face of father, understand and two are atoned.
---for the son who is prepared to know the father he already bore the agonies of ordeal
----the world is no longer a vale of tears but a bliss yielding, perpetual manifestation
    of presense

