Initiation CHapter 2 The Meeting with the Goddess

The ultimate adventure, when all the barriers and ogres have been overcome
is commonly represented as mystical marriage of the triumphant hero-soul
with the Queen Goddess of the World. This is the crisis at the nadir, the
zenith, or at the uttermost edge of the earth, at the central point of the
cosmos, in the tabernacle of temple, or within the darkness of the deepest
chamber of the heart.

===EXAMPLE===
A prince of lonesome isle had gone to a journey of finding 3 bottles of water
of Tubber Tintye, the flaming fairy well for the hope of healing the Queen 
of Erin. Following the advice of a supernatural aunt he surpassed the obstacles
and went to the castle of Tubber Tintye; he sprang from its back through the
open window, and came down inside and sound.

The whole place is enormouse and filled with different and dangerous animals
that are sleeping, such as dragons and octopuses and beasts of every form 
and kind. He passed through them until he reached the great stairway where
he went through it. At the head he found the most beautiful woman he had 
ever seen. He went on to the next, seeing each woman more beautiful than
before. 

But when he reached the 13th chamber the flash of gold took the sight from 
his eyes. He stood awhile till the sight came back, and then entered. On 
the chamber there was a golden couch going round and round endlessly. On 
the couch lay the Queen of Tubber Tintye; and if her 12 maidens were beautiful
, they would not be beautiful if seen near her. At the foot of the couch
was Tubber Tintye itself -- the well of fire. There was a golden over upon
the well, and it went around continually with the couch of the Queen.

THe prince said he will rest there for a while, and he went up on the couch
and never left it for 6 days and nights. 

===ENDOFEXAMPLE====


The lady of house of sleep is familiar figre in fairy tale and myth(sleeping
beauty) is a paragon of all paragons of beauty, the reply to all desire.
The bliss-bestowing goal of every hero's earthly and unearthly quest. She is
mother, sister, mistress, bride. Whatever in the world has lured that seems
to promise joy has been a bad sign of her existence. for she is the personi-
fied promise of perfection; the soul's assurance that and the end of its 
exile in this organized inadequate world, the bliss that was known will be 
known again: the comforting, the nourishing, the "good" mother -- young and
beautiful -- who was known to us, and even tasted in the remotest past. Time
sealed her away yet she is dwelling still at the bottom of the timeless sea. 

The remembered image of a "mother" is not only kind, however for the "bad" 
mother too. 

1. absent, unattainable mother, against whom aggressive fantasies are directed
and from whome a counter-aggression is feared
2. hampering, forbidding, punishing mother
3. the mother who would hold to herself the growing child trying to push away
4. the desired but forbidden mother whose presence is a lure to dangerous
desire(castration complex) and persist in the hidden land of the adult's infant
recollection and is sometimes even the greater force. 

She is at the root of such unattainable great goddess figures as that of the 
chaste and terrible diana.


===STORY===
Acteon chanced to see the dangerous goddess at noon, taking a tbath in a body
of water, leaving his dogs to rest after a hunt. The goddess Diana was shocked
by what Acteon did, and she turned him into a deer with antlers. The dogs 
grasped a smell of him, and they started to chase the deer. Acteon started to 
cry their names, but the sound from his throat was not human. He was eated by
his dogs later on. Diana miraculously aware of Acteons destiny, could now rest
appeased.
===ENDOFSTORY===

The mythological figure of the Universal Mother represents the cosmos of the
feminine attributes of the first, nourishing and protecting experience. The 
fantasy primarily appears without a cause; for there exists a close and obvious
correspondence between the attitude of the young child toward its mother and
that of the adult towards the surrounding material world.  

But there has been a consciously controlled archetypal image used for teaching
that has a purpose of purging, balancing, and initiation of the mind into the 
nature of visible world.

In the tantric book of India the home of the goddess is called Mani-dvpa(The
Island of Jewels). Her couch and throne is there, in a grove of wishfulfilling
tress. Beaches are of golden sands. They are laved by the still waters of the
ocean of the nectar of immortality. 

Godddess has the essence of creation as she is red with fire of life; the earth
, the solar system, the galaxies of far-extending space, all swell within her
womb. For she is the world creatrix, ever mother, ever virgin. She encompasses
the encompassing, nourishes the nourishing, and she is the life of everything
that lives.

She is also the death of everything that dies. Whole existence is accomplished
within her sway, from birth, through adolescence, maturity and death to the 
grave. 

She is both the womb and tomb. Thus she unites the good and the bad, exhibiting
two modes of the remembered mother, not as personal but as universal. The devo-
tee is expected to contemplate the two with equal equanimity. Through this 
exercise his spirit is purged of tis infantile, inappropriate sentimentalities 
and resentments, and his mind opened to the inscrutable presence which exists,
not primary as good and bad with respect to his childlike human convenience, his
weal and woe, but as the law and image of the nature of being.

The temple image that is newly erected displays the divinity of Cosmic Mother
in two aspects simultaneously, the terrible and the benign. 

-her four arms exhibited the symbols of her universal power
-upper left hand holds a bloody saber
-lower left hand gripping by the hair a severed human head
-upper right was lifted in the "fear not" gesture
- the lower extended in bestowal of boons. 
- as for the necklace she wore a garland of human heads
- her kilt was a girdle of human arms, her long tounge was out to lick blood

She was Cosmic Power, the totality of the universe, the harmonization of
all the pairs of opposites, combining wonderfully the terror of absolute
destruction and the impersonal yet motherly assurane. As change, the river
of time, the fluidity of life, the goddess once creates, preseves and 
destroys.

===STORY===
One quiet afternoon Ramakrishna beheld a beautiful woman ascend from the 
Ganges and approach the grove in which he was meditating. He perceived that
she was about to give birth to a child. In a moment the baby was born, she
gently nursed it. Presently, however, she assumed a horrible aspect, took
the infant in her now ugly jaws and crushed it, chewed it.  Swallowing it,
she returned again to Ganges and disappeared.
===ENDOFSTORY===

Only geniuses capable of the highest realization can support the full
revelation of sublimity of this goddess. For lesser men she reduces her
effulgence and permits herself to appear in forms concordant with their
underdeveloped powers. Fully observing her would be a terrible accident
for any person not spirituall prepared: like the Acteon. He was not a saint
but a sportsman unprepared for the revelation of the form that must be 
observed without a human(ie. infantile) over- and undertones of desire, 
surprise and fear.

Woman, in the picture language of mythology, represents the totality of 
what can be known. The hero is one to comes to know. As he progresses in
the slow initation which is a life, the form of the goddess undergoes for
him in a series of beautiful changes: she can never be greater than 
himself, though she can always promise more than he is yet capable of 
comprehending.

She lures, she guides, she bids him burst his chains. ANd if he can match
what she indicated, the two the knower and to be known, will be released
from every limitation. 

Woman is the guide to the most beautiful point of sensuous adventure.
By deficient eyes she is reduced to low quality state, by the evil eye
of ignorance she is spellbound to boring and ugly. But she is redeemed by
the eyes of understanding. The hero who can take her as she is, without
excessive disturbance but with the kindness and assurance she requires, is
potentially the king, the incarnate god of her created world. 

===STORY===
5 prince went on a journey to hunt and they went thirsty. Fergus first
tried to look for water. He finds a well and he found an old woman as a 
sentry. He requested some water, but the old woman required a kiss, in 
which he did not granted. The next three prince did the same thing too 
and failed to bring the water. Until finally the last prince granted the
old woman's wish, the old woman revealed herself as a beautiful woman. 
===ENDOFSTORY===

The goddess requires that the hero should be endowed with the gentle heart.
Not by animal desire of an Acteon, not by the fastidious disgust shown by
the first prince, but only by gentleness.

The meeting with the goddess(who is embodied in every woman) is the final
test of talent of the hero to win the boon of love, which is life itself
as the encasement of eternety.

And when the adventurer, is not a youth but a maid, she is the one who, by
her qualities, her beauty, or her yearning, is fit to become the consort
of an immortal. Then the heavenly husband descends to her and conducts her
to his bed -- whether she will or no. And if she consistently ignores him
, the scales fall from her eyes; if she has sought him, her desire finds
its peace.

===EXAMPLE===
The arapaho girl who followed the porcupine up to the sky became a wife 
of a heavenly youth. It was he, under the form of luring porcupine, had 
seduced her to his supernatural home.
===ENDOFEXAMPLE===

===EXAMPLE===
When Psyche had accomplished all of the difficult tasks, Jupiter himself
gave her a draft of the elixir of immortality; so that she is now and
forever united with Cupid, in the paradise of perfected form.
===ENDOFEXAMPLE===

===EXAMPLE===
The king daughteer was followed by the frog inspite of the daughters disgust,
until she plucked him from the floor and flung him at the wall. The frog
revealed himself as a king's son with kind and beautiful eyes. They married
and lived happily ever after.
===ENDOFEXAMPLE===


----the overcoming of all barriers and ogres is represented as mystical marriage
    of hero-soul with queen goddess of world
----this happens anywhere that is not within the reach of anyone(zenith/uttermost
    edge of earth, or within darkness of deepest chamber of heart)
----meeting with goddess is the final test of talent for the hero to win the 
    love of fate
----in the lady of house of sleep is paragons of all paragons of beauty, the 
    bliss bestowing goal of every hero's earthly and unearthly qust
----whatevery in world has lured that seems to promise joy is a bad sign of 
    her existence
----souls assurance that at the end of its exile in this organized inadequate world,
    bliss that was known will be known again, the 'good' mother that known to us
    and tasted in remotest past. 
----the remembered image of mother is not of just 'good' aspect but also a 
    'bad' aspect too
----mythological figure of universal mother represents cosmos of feminine 
    attributes of first, nourishing and protecting experience
----there exists a close and obvious correspondence between the attitude of 
    young child towwards its mother and that of adult towards surrounding 
    material world
----always, there has been consciously controlled archetypal image used for 
    teaching that purposed of purging, balancing and initiation of mind into 
    the nature of visible world
----only geniuses capable of highest realization can support full revelation
    and sublimity of this goddess
----for lesser men she reduces her effulgence and permits herself to appear in
    forms concordant with their underdeveloped power
----fully observing goddess for any person not spiriually prepared would be a
    terrible accident.
----woman represents totality of what can be known, in which the hero comes to 
    know. 
----as hero progress in slow initiation, she undergoes him a series of beautiful
    change, she can never be greater than himself(support) though she can
    always promise more than he is yet capable of comprehending
----if hero can match what she indicated, the knower and to be known will be 
    released from every limitation
----goddess is guide to most beutiful point of sensous adventure
----in deficient eyes she is lowquality, in ignorant she is boring and ugly,
    but she is redeemed by eyes of understanding
----hero can take her as she is without excessive disturbance but with kindness
    and assurance she requires, as he is potentially the king of her created world
----goddess requires that she must be endowed with gentle heart
