Initiation - Chapter 3 Woman as a Temptress

Mystical marriage of queen and hero represents the hero's total mastery
of life, for the woman is life, and hero knows and has the mastery of it. 

The testings of the hero which are required to his ultimate experience
and deed, where symbolical to the crisis of realization by means which
his consciousness were amplifed and made to endure the full posession
of mother destroyer, his inevitable bride. With that he knows that he 
and father and one, thus placing him to father's place. 

===NOTE===
The trials of the hero faced are the requirements to prepare him to 
endure the full possesio of mother destroyer, which is his inevitable
bride. With that he knows that he and the father are one, thus placing
him to a father's place. 
===ENDOFNOTE===

When phrased in extremest terms, the problem may sound far from what 
the normal human creature has been an affair of. In the end, every 
failyre to cope with a life situation must be laid, in the end to a 
restriction of consciousness. 

Wars and temper tantrums are temporary substitue of ignorance; regrets
are revlation come too late. 

The whole sense of the general myth of the hero's journey is that it
serves as general pattern for men and women, wherever they may stand
along the way. Therefore it is formulated in the broadest terms. 
Individual has only to discover his own position with the reference to
the human formula, and let it assist him/her past his restricting walls. 

Who and where are his/her ogres? Those are reflections of unsolved
enigmas of his own humanity. 

What are his ideals? Those are the symptoms of his grasp of life. 

In the modern psychoanalyst, stages of hero-adventure come to light 
again in dreams and hallucinations of patient. 

Depth beyond depth of self-ignorance is fully understood, with the 
analyst in the role of helper, initiatory priest. And always, after the
first thrills of getting underway, adventure develops into a journey
of darkness, horror, disgust and phantasmagoirc fears. 

The most important point of the curious difficulty lies in the fact that
our conscious views of life rarely correspond what life really is. 

Generally we refuse to admit within ourself or within our friends, the
fullness of that pushing, self-protective, malodorous, carnivorous, 
lecherous fever which is the nature of the organic cell. Rather
we tend to perfum, whitewash and reinterpret them as  the faults of 
some unpleasant someone else. 

But when it suddenly dawns on us, or forced to our attention, that 
everything we think or do is necessarily tainted with the odor of the 
flesh, then commonly, there is experienced moment of disgust: life, 
the acts of life, organs of life, woman in particular as symbol of life
, become intolerable to the pure, pure, puresoul 

The innocent delight of Oedipus in his first posession of the queen 
turns to an agony of spirit when he learns who that woman is. 
Like Hamlet, he is beset by the moral image of the father. He also turns
from the fair features of the world to search the darkness for a higher
kingdom than this of incest of adultery ridden, luxurious and 
incorrigible mother. 

The seeker of the life beyond life must press beyond her, surpass the 
temptation of her call, and soar to the immaculate ether beyond. 

Where this Oedipus-Hamlet revulsion remains to treathen the soul, there
the world, the body, and woman above all, become the symbols no longer 
of victory but of defeat. A monastic puritanical, world negating 
ethical system then radiacally and immediately transfigures all the 
images of myth. The hero cannot rest longer in innocence with the
goddess of the flesh; for she is become the queen of sin.

===STORY===

Saint Bernard suffered from headaches and a young woman came to visit
him one day, to sooth his sufferings with her son. But he immediately
drove her from the room, and the god rewarded him for his great energy
to pursue his objective, for he got up from his bed immediately and 
cured. 

When the child, at the instignation of the devil had stood staring at 
the lady for some time, suddenly he blushed for himself, and entered an 
icy water of pond as a voluntary self-punishmen, where he remained 
until frozen to his bones. 

all of the other experience convicned bernard that it was pretty risky
thing to life together with the serpent. So he planned to be quit of 
the world and enter the monastic order of the cistercians

===ENDOFSTORY===

Not even the monastery walls even the remoteness of the desert can 
defend against the female presences, for as long as the hermit's flesh
clings to the bones and pulses warm, the images of life are alert to 
storm his mind,



