Initiation Chapter 5 Apotheosis 

Avalokiteshvara, beloved because he regards to compassion of all sentient
creatures suffering evils of existence. During his final life on earth
as human being, he shattered for himself the bounds of the last threshold
(which moment opened to him the timelessness of the void beyond the 
frustrating mirage-enigmas of the named and bounded cosmos), he paused
and made a vow that before entering void he would enlighten all creature.

since then he spread throughout the existence with divine grace of his
assisting presence, so that least prayer would graciously heard. Under 
different forms he traverses 10000 thousand worlds and appears in time of 
need. He reveals himself in human form with 2 arms, superhuman forms with
more many arms, and he holds in one left hand lotus of world. 

This godlike being is a pattern of divine state a hero attains when he 
went beyond the last terrors of ignorance.

The Bodhisattva fills, illuminates and hold the world, the lotus. 
Bodhisattva encloses the pain and pleasure, and he does not let them
enclose him.

In china and japan the sublimely gentle bodhisattva is represent not in 
male form but also as female.


The first wonder to be noted is that the androgynous character of the
bodhisattva: masculine and feminine. Male-female gods are not uncommon in 
the world of myth. They emerge always with a certain mystery; for they 
conduct the mind beyond objective experience into a symbolic realm where
duality is left behind. 

Awonawilona, is sometimes spoken as he but actually he-she.

The removal of feminine into another form symbolizes the beginning of the 
fall from perfection into duality; and it was naturally followed by the 
discovery of the duality of good and evil, exile from the garden where
God walks on earth, and thereupon building wall of paradise .

One of the basic ways of symbolizing the mystery of creation is the 
development of eternity into time, the breaking of the one into the two
and then the many, as well of generation of new life through the 
reconjunction of the two. 

The image stands at the beginning of the cosmogonic cycle, and with equal
propriety at the conclusion of the hero-task, at the moment when the wall
of Paradise is dissolved, the divine form found and recollected and wisdom
regained. 

Tiresias, blinded seer, was both male and female. 
Shiva appears united in a single body with Shakti, his spouse -- he the 
right side, she the left-in the manifestation known as Ardhanarisha, "The
Half-Woman Lord" 

Ancestral images of certain African and Melanesian tribe show on one being
the breasts of the mother and the beard and penis of the father. 

In Australia, about a year following the circumsiion, candidate for full
manhood undergoes a second ritual operation -- that of subincision(slitting
open of the underside of penis, to form a permanent cleft into uretra). 
The opening is termed the "penis womb". It is a symbolical male vagina. 
The hero  has become, by the virtue of the ceremonial, more than man.

The blood for ceremonial paintings is derived by the Australian fathers 
from their subincision holes. They break open again the old wounds
and let it flow, symbolizing for once the menstrual blood of the vagina
and the semen of the male as well as urine, water and male milk. The 
flowing shows that old men have the source of life and nourishment
within themselves that they and the inexhaustible world fountain are 
the same.

The call of the Great Father Snake was alarming to the child, the mother
was the protection. But the father came, he was the guide and initiator
into the mysteries of unknown. As the original intruder into paradise
of the infant with mother, father becomes the archetypal enemy; hence
throughout life all enemies are symbolical (to the unconscious) of the 
father. Hence the irresistible compulsion to make war: the impulse to 
destroy the father is continually transforming itself into public
violence. 

The old men of the immediate community or race protect themselves 
from their growing sons by the psychologial magic of their totem 
ceremonials. They act the role of ogre father and then reveal themselves
to be the feeding mother too. A new and larger paradise is thus established. 

But this paradise does not include the traditional enemy tribes, or races,
against whome aggression is still systematically projected. 
All the 'good' father-mother content is saved for home, while the 'bad' 
is flung abroad.

Totem, tribal, racial and aggressiely missionizing cults represent only 
partial solutions of the psychological problem of subduing hate by love; 
they only partially intiaate. Ego is not annihilated in them; the 
individual becomes dedicated to whole life of his society. The rest of the
world is left outside the sphere of his sympathy and protection.
And there takes place them, that dramatic divorce of the two principles
of love and hate which pages of history so bountifully illustrate. 
Instead of clearing his own heart the zealot tries to clear the world. 
The laws of City of god are applied only to his in-group(tribe, church
, nation, class) while the fire of perpetual holy war is hurled(with
good conscience, and indeed a sense of pious service) against whatever
uncircumcised, barbarian, heathen, 'native' or alien people happens to
occupy the position of the neighbor.

world is full of the resultant mutually contending bands: totem-, flag-,
and party-worshippers. Even the so-called Christians are better known 
for colonial barbarity and destructive conflict than for any display of 
unconditional love that was taught by their professed supreme Lord. 

Once we have broke free of the prejudices of our own provincially limited
ecclesiatical, tribal or national rendition of the world arhcetypes, it
becomes possible to understand that the supreme inititiaion of the 
local motherly father who project aggression onto the neighbors of their 
own defense.

The good news which world redeemer brings and which many are glad to hear, 
zelous to preach but reluctant to demonstrate is that 'god is love', 
that he can be, and is to be loved and that all without exception are his
children.

Such comparative trivial matters as remaining details of credo, techniques
of worships and devices of epicopal organiztion are just formal snares, 
unless kept as primary need for major teaching. Indeed, when not so kept,
they have regressive effect: they reduce the father image back again to 
the dimensions of the totem.

We are all reflexes of image of the Bodhisattva. Sufferer with in us is
that divine being. We and that protecting father are one. That protecting
father is every man we meet. And it must be known that through this 
ignorant, limited, self defending, suffering body that may regard itself
as treathened by some other (enemy) that is also a god. 

Ogre breaks us but the hero within us undergoes the initiation 'like a man' 
and observe that it was the father: we in him and he in us. 
The dear protecting mother of our body could not defend us from the 
Great Father Serpent; the mortal tangible body that she gave us was 
delivered into the Great Father Serpent's frightening power. But death 
was not the end. New life, new birth, new knowledge of existence(so that 
we live not in this physique but in all bodies) was given to us. 

That father was himself the womb, the mother, of a second birth.

This  is meaning of image of bisexual god. He is mystery of the theme of 
initiation. We are taken from mother, chewed into fragments to the world
annihilating body of ogre for whom all the precious forms and beings
are only courses of a feast; but then we are miraculously reborn and we 
are more than we were .

If the God is tribal, racial, national or secretarian achetype, we are 
the warriors of his cause, but if he is a lord of the universe itself, 
we then go forth as knowers to whom all men are brothers. 

In either ase the childhood parent images and ideas of 'good' and 'evil'
have been surpassed. We no longer desire and fear; we are what was desired
and feared. All gods have been subsumed to us, as in the halo of the 
mighty holder of lotus of the world. 

THe sense of the first wonder of bodhisattva is the androgynous character
of the presences. Therewith the two apparantly opposite mythological 
adventures come togeter: meeting with goddess and atonement with father,
for in the first the initiate learns that the male and female are 'two 
halves of a split pea' whereas in the second father is found to existed
before the division of sex. And in both cases it is found that the hero
himself is that which he had come to find. 

Second wonder in bodhisattva myth is its annihilation to the distinction
between life and release from life. 

Third wonder is that the first wonder is symbolical to the second (identity
of eternity and time). For in the language of divine pictures the word of 
time is the great mother womb, life therein, begotten by the father 
is compounded of her darkness and his light. 