Made to Stick - Emotion


when it comes to our hearts, one individual trumps the masses
when people think analytically, they're less likely to think emotionally

how to make them care, is one step

memory is important, its the first step, what about the action

how do we make people care about our messages?
to make people care about our ideas we don't have to produce 
emotion from an absence of emotion.

many ideas use sort of piggybacking strategy, associating themselves
with emotions that already exist

the most basic way to make people care is to form an association
between something they don't yet care about 

eg honoring the game 

the goal is to promote sportsmanship in sports, he linked the sport 
and sportmanship that made it really work

if we want to make people care, we've got to tap into the things they 
care about

when everybody taps into samething, arms race emerges, to avoid it,
we've either got to shift onto new turf, or find association that
are distinctive for our ideas

what matters to people? obvious answer, people matter to themselves

one reliable way of making people care is by invoking self-interest

try to get self-interest into headline you write, make your headline
suggest to readers that here is something they want. 

eg.

you can laugh at money worries if you follow this simple plan
retire at 55
the secret of how to be taller

companize emphasize features when they should be emphasizing benefits

"you've got to spell out benefit of benefit" 

in other words, people don't buy quarter inch drill bits. 
they buy quarter inch holes so they can hang their childrens pictures

whats non-advertising, nonschlocky take away from the caples techniques?
not to overlook self-interest
you shouldnt dance around the appeal to self-interest, it should be 
that 'whats in it for you' should be central aspect of every speech

some people resist spelling out message, but for some audience, spelling out 
has value

if you got self-interest on your side, don't bury it, dont talk around it 

"imagine cable television"  appeal is much more subtle appeal to self interest

avoid talking about abstract benefitts and focus on personal benefits

it was only when people put themselves in the starring role

it may be tangibility, rather than magnitude, of benefits that makes people care 

self interest isn't the whole story, especially if we define "self-interest" narrowly,
as we often do, in terms of wealth and security

in maslow hierarchy of needs there are different levels
transcendence: help others realize their potential
self-actualization: realize own potential, self-fulfillment, peak experiences
aesthetic: symmetry, order, beauty, balance
learning: know, understand, mentally connect
esteem: achive, be competent, gain approval, independence, status
belonging: love, family, friends affection
security: protection, safety, stability
physical: hunger, thirst, bodily control


when people talk about "self-interest" they typically invoking physical, security, and 
esteem layers, 
people focus on those categories, maybe those are the ones that truly matter.
rest of them, do seem a bit academic

a lot of us think that everyone else, is living in maslows basement, 
but every one else is living below. 
result of spending too much time in maslow's basement is that we may overlook lots of 
opportunities to motivate people

not htat the bottom floors or the more tangible, physical, needs, aren't motivation
but to focus on these needs, exclusively robs us of the change to tap more 
profound motivations

eg
food in army is jsut calory factory, bland, overcooked
giving soldier what they just need in order to work
a chef that has been a soldier thought that he is not just in charge of food service, 
he is in charge of morale

think about that, "incharge of morale" in terms of maslows, hierarchy, lee is 
going for transcendence 

lee realizes that serving food is job, but improving morale is a mission
improving morale imvolves creativity and experimentation and mastery, serving food 
involves a ladle

there was a marketer that had been taught that there are three basic consumer appeals
sex, greed and fear 

basically he is a marketer who was promoting a new educational film on fire safety 
that was intended to help firemen 

marketers instinct was that greed would work best in this situation

first would be
"would you like to see the film for possible purchase for your educational programs" 
universal answer was an enthusiastic yes

second question 
"would your firefighters prefer a large electric popcorn popper or an excellent set of 
chefs carving knives as a thank you for reviewing the film?"

it yielded definitive answers to question:
"do you think we'd use a fire safety program because of some popcorn popper?"

sometiems self-interest helps people care, and sometimes it backfires. what are we to make 
of this?

mystery deepens if we consider politics, conventional wisdom is that voters are 
paragons of selfinterest
if there's a proposal on the table to raise the marginal tax rate on highest incomes, 
we expect rich people to vote agains it and everyone else to vote for it

in reality this conventional wisdom is wrong.

theres not much evidence that public opinion can be predicted by narrow-self interest.

self interest does seem to matter, quite a bit, when the effects of a public policy are 
significant, tangible, and immediate 

self interest shapes what we pay attention to, even if it doesn't dictate our stance.

but self interest isn't the whole story.

and perhaps most important part is this "group interest" is often a better predictor of 
political opinions thatn self-interest 

kinder says that in forming opinions people seem to ask not 
"whats in it for me?" but rather

"whats in it for my group?" 

group affiliation may be based on race, class, religion, gender, region, political party,
industry, or countless other dimensions of differrence

related idea came from james march that we use two basic models to make decisions

first involves calculating consequences. this model is standard view of decision making 
in economics class: People are self-interested and rational.

second model is quite different, it assumes that people makes decisions based on identity
they ask three questions 

who am I?
What kind of situation is this? 
And what do people like me do in this kind of situation? 

in second model people aren't analysing consequences or outcomes for themselves.
there are no calculations, only norms and principles

its almostas if people consulted an ideal self-image: What would someone like me do? 

second model of decision making helps shed light on why firefighters got angry 
about the popcorn popper

self interest is important, there's no question that we can make people care by appealing to
it 

but it makes for a limited palette, 
always structuring our ideas around self-interest is like always painting with one color

eg shreks idea for texas
    'dont mess with texas' that has an idea in which bubba would respond to an identity 
    appeal better than he would do to a rational self-interest appeal.

so far we've looked at 3 strats to make people care
    association to what they care, 
    appealing to self interest
    appealing to identity

while these are effective, we've got also to watch out for curse of knowledge 

tactick of "whys" can be useful in bypassing curse of knowledge, asking why helps to 
remind us of the core values, core principles, that underlie our ideas

how can we make people care about our ideas? 
we get them to take off their Analytical Hats, we create empathy for specific individuals
we show how our ideas are associated with things that people already care about 
we appeal to self-interest, but we also appeal to our identities, 
not only to the people they are right now but also to the people they would like to be 

while we should always think about "whats in it" for our audience, we should remember
to stay clear of maslow's basement 

"what's in it " for audience might be aesthetic motivation or desire for transcendence 
rather than 250 bonus.

as chef said, he's not just in charge of food service, hes in charge of morale
