Crossing the First Threshold 
most critical action of act one

which hero commits wholeheartedly to the adventure

heroes dont just accept advice and gifts of mentor and then go

often their final commitment is brought about through some external
force which changes course/intensity of story

external event pushes story over first threshold into special world
where stakes are higher

internal events might trigger a threshold crossing as well. 
heroes come to decision points where their very souls are at stake,
where they must decide.

often a combination of external events and inner choices will boost
story towards second act.

you may encounter threshold guardians, they pop up to block way 
and test hero at any point in a story, but they tend to cluster 
around doorways, gates, and narrow passages of threshold crossing

threshold guardians are part of training of any hero
task for heros at this point is often to figure out some way 
around or through these guardians 

often their threat is just an illusion and solution is  just ignore
or push them with faith

other threshold guardian must be absorbed or their hostile energy
must be reflected back onto them. 

realize that what seems like obstacle may actually be means of 
climbing over threshold

threshold guardians who seem to be enemies maybe turned into valuable
allies

sometimes guardians of first threshold simply need to be acknowledged

crossing of threshold signifies we have reached border of two worlds

crossing takes certain kind of courage from hero
there is no turning backnow, leap of faith is made on faith, the 
trust that somehow we'll land safely

heroes don't always land gently, they may crash in other world,
literally or figuratively

leap of faith may turn into crisis of faith as romantic illusions 
about special world are shattered by first contact with into

passage to special world maybe exhausting frustrating or disorienting

first threshold is turning point at which adventure begins in earnest
at the end of act 1


1. What is the First Threshold of City Slickers? Rain Man? Dances with Wolves? How 
does the audience know we've gone from one world to another? How does the 
energy of the story feel different? 

2. Is your hero willing to enter the adventure or not? How does this affect the 
Threshold Crossing? 

3. Are there guardian forces at the Threshold and how do they make the hero's leap 
of faith more difficult? 

4. How does the hero deal with Threshold Guardians? What does the hero learn by 
Crossing the Threshold? 

5. What have been the Thresholds in your own life? How did you experience them? 
Were you even aware you were crossing a threshold into a Special World at the 
time? 

6. By Crossing a Threshold, what options is a hero giving up? Will these unexplored 
options come back to haunt the hero later? 
132 