Approach to Inmost cave
meeting with goddess, woman as temptres, atonemtn with father


heros having made the adjustment to the Special world no go 
on to seek its heart


they pass into intermediate region betwen border and very center
of the hero's journey

on the way they find another mysterious zone with its own
threshold guardian, agendas and tests

this is inmost cave where soonthey will encounter supreme wonder
and terror

its time to make final preparations for the central ordeal of the 
adventure

as heroes near the gates of citadel deep within special world, 
they may take time to make plans, do reconnaisance on the enemy
or thinout the group, fortify and arm themselves, and have last 
lauge and final cigarette before going over the top 
into no-man's land

approach can be an arena for elaborate courtship rituals
some heroes boldly stride up to the castle door and demand to be 
let in, confident committed heros will take this approach

approach may be time for preparation for ordeal

this can be a preparation for life and death struggle to come

another function of approach tis to up the stakes and rededicate
the team to its mission

approach is good time to recalibrate your team, express misgivings
and give encouragement

we must get into the minds of those who seem to stand in our way
if we understand/empathize with them, job of getting past them
or absorbing they energy is must easier

when life and death issue is faced - approach to inmost cave is 
complete

approach encompasses all final preparations for supreme ordeal
it often brings heroes to a stronghold of opposition, 
defended center where every lesson andally of journey sofar 
comes into play. new perceptions are put to test and 
final obstacles to reaching heart are overcome, so that supreme
ordeal may begin


1. Campbell says that in myths, the crossing of the First Threshold is often followed 
by the hero passing through "the belly of the whale." He cites stories from many 
cultures of heroes being swallowed by giant beasts. In what sense are the heroes 
"in the belly of the whale" in the early stages of Act Two in Thelma & Louise! Fatal 
Attraction} Unforgivenl 

2. Campbell describes several ideas or actions surrounding the major ordeal of a 
myth: "Meeting with the Goddess," "Woman as Temptress," "Atonement with 
the Father." In what ways are these ideas part of Approaching the Inmost Cave? 

meeting with goddess, can help a hero during approach, woman as temptress can tilt
a hero, atonemnt with father is approval

3. In your own story, what happens between entering the Special World and reaching 
a central crisis in that world? What special preparations lead up to the crisis? 


4. Does conflict build, and do the obstacles get more difficult or interesting? 

5. Do your heroes want to turn back at this stage, or are they fully committed to 
the adventure now? 

6. In what ways is the hero, in facing external challenges, also encountering inner 
demons and defenses? 

7. Is there a physical Inmost Cave or headquarters of the villain which the heroes 
Approach? Or is there some emotional equivalent? 
