The Ressurection

trickiest and most challenging passages for hero and writers
audience needs to experience an additional moment of death 
and rebirth. 
similar to supreme ordeal but subtly different


this is climax, the last and most dangerous meeting with death
heros have to undergo final purging and purification before reentering
ordinary world

once more they must change

for writers is show the change in their characters, by behavior or 
appearance rather than by just talking about it 

writers must find ways to demonstrate that their heroes have been through
a Ressurection

new personality
    new self must be created for a new world, they must shed the 
    personality of the journey and build a new one that suitable for return
    it should reflect the best parts of old selves and the lessons learned
    along the way

cleansing
    one function of Ressurection is to clean heroes of smell of death, yet
    help them retain lessons of ordeal

simplest level ressurection may just be a hero facing death one last time 
in an ordeal, battle, or showdonw. its often the final, decisive
confrontation with the villain or shadow

difference between this is that danger is usually on broadest scale of 
the entire story

hero should be the one to act in this climactic moment 
hero can get surprise assistance, but its best for the hero to be the 
one to perform the decisive action, deliver death blow to fear or 
shadow, 

ressurection is expressed as biggest confrontation and battle of the story
showdown pits hero and villains in an ultimate contest with the higest 
possible stakes, life and death. 

showdown is a distinct dramatic form with its own rules and conventions
duels are not fully satisfying unless the hero is taken right to the 
edge of death

hero must be fighting clearly for his life, 
he may actually seem to die 

conventionally heroes surviv this brush with death and ressurected,
often villains who die or defeated
some heros actually die at this point

choice 
    another possibility of ressurection momet maybe climactic choice 
    among options that indicates whether or not the hero has truly
    learned the lesson of change
    difficult choice tests a hero's values: will he choose in accordance
    with his old, flawed ways, or will choice reflect new person he's 
    become? 


ressurection usually marks climax of dramatic
highest peak in energy 
it may be physical showdown,  it can also be expressed as difficult choice,
sexual climax, musical crescendo, or highly emotional but decisive 
confrontation

quiet climax
    quiet climax need not be the most explosive, dramatic, loud or 
    dangerous moment of story
    can be a gentle cressing of wave of emotion
    give a sense that all conflicts have been harmoniously resolved
    all tensions converted into feelings of pleasure and peace
    after hero experienced death of loved one, there maybe quiet climax
    of acceptance or understanding
    knots of tension created inthe body of story come united, after a 
    gentle tug from final realization

rolling climaxes 
    stories may need more than one climax, or series of rolling climaxes
    individual subplots may require seperate climaxes
    ressurection is another checkpoint through which all threads of 
    story have to passages
    rebirth and cleansing may have to be experienced on more than one level

    hero may experience a climax on different levels of awareness in 
    succession, such as mind, body and emotion. 

    hero might go through climax of mental change or decision which
    triggers a physical climax or showdown in material world 
    this could be followed by an emotional or spiritual climax as 
    hero's behavior and feeling schange

    well-made story can bring all levels-- mind, body, and spirit, to 
    climax in same moment

    when hero takes a decisive action, hero whole world can change forever


carthasis
    climax should provide feeling of carthasis, meaning purifying emotional
    release or an emotional breakthrough. 

    climax you are trying to trigger in your hero and audience is the 
    moment when they are most conscious(they have reached highest point on 
    ladder of awareness)

    can be combined with a simple physical showdown 

    carthasis works best through physical expression of emotions such 
    as laughter and crying 

    sentimental stories can bring an audience to carthasis of tears 
    by pushing their emotions to climax

    laughter is one of the strongest channels of carthasis

    carthasis is logical climax of hero's character arc
    this is a term used to describe the gradual stages of change in 
    character, phases and turning points of change

    common flaw is that writers make heros grow/change but very abrupt

    people change by degrees, growing in gradual stages 

last change 
    ressurection is hero's final attempt to make major change in 
    attitude or behavior
    hope for character is temporarily dead, but can be ressurected if 
    he changes his mind. 

watch your step
    ressurection can be potential misstep for a returning hero who may 
    be walking a narrow-sword bridge from one world to the next

misstep for hero might not be a physical event, but a moral or
emotional stumble at the threshold of return

false claimant
    last minute threat to hero who has gone on quest to achieve 
    impossible takes
    false claimant suddenly steps forward questioning hero's credentials
    or claiming that he achieved impossible
    to be reborn, hero must provide proof that he is true claimant

proof
    providing proof is major functon of ressurection stages
    real treasure from traveling is not souvenirs, but lasting inner
    change nad learning

sacrifice 
    ressurection often calls for sacrifice by hero, something must 
    be surrendered such as old habit or belief. 
    something must be given back

incorporation
    resurrectio is an opportunity for hero to show he has absorved, 
    or incorporated every lesson from every character
    ideal climax would test everyhting he'slearned

change
    higher purpose of ressurection is to give an outward sign that the 
    hero has really changed, old self must be proven to be completely
    dead and new self immune to temptations and addictions that trapped
    old form

trick for writers is to make change visible in appearance or action.
its not enough to have people around a hero notice that she's changed
/ audience must see it in her dress, behavior, attitude and actions

ressurection is the hero's final exam, her change to show what she 
has learned. 

heroes are totally purged by final sacrifice or deeper experience of 
myteries of life and death 

some don't make it past this but those who survive go on to close
circle of hero's journey when they return with elixir

1. What is the Resurrection in King Kong) Gone with the Wind) The Silence of the Lambs) 
Death Becomes Her) 

2. What negative characteristics has your hero picked up along the way? What flaws 
were there from the beginning that still need to be corrected? What flaws do you 
want to preserve, uncorrected? Which are necessary parts of your hero's nature? 

3. What final ordeal of death and rebirth does your hero go through? What aspect 
of your hero is Resurrected? 

4. Is there a need for a physical showdown in your story? Is your hero active at the 
critical moment? 

5. Examine the character arc of your hero. Is it a realistic growth of gradual changes? 
Is the final change in your character visible in her actions or appearance? 

6. Who learns anything in a tragedy where the hero dies, where the hero didn't learn 
his lessons?
