Ordeal


hero stands deepest chamber of inmost cave, facing greatest challenge
and most fearsome opponent yet.

hero must die so that they can be reborn

hero face death or something like it: 
greatest fears, failure of an enterprise, end of relationship, 
death of old personality

when they survive and literally or symbollically reborn to reap consequence
of having cheated death, they passed maintest of being hero.


they are reborn, as changed/transformed/transfigured individual

this is not yet the climax of the story

ordeal is usually the central event of the story, or the main event of 
the second act. 

commonly called crisis, point in story at which hostile forces are in 
the tensest state of opposition

the highest point, which the patient either gest worse or begins to 
recover,  

somethings have to getworse before they can get better

ordeal crisis, however frightening to the hero is sometimes only way 
to recovery or victory

placement of crisis or ordeal depends 

every story needs crisis moment that conveys ordeal's sense of death 
and revival

central crisis has advantae of symmetry and leaves plenty of time fr 
elaborate consequences to flow 

delayed crisis that comes near the end of act 2 leaves more 
room for preparation and approach and allows slow buildup to a big 
moment at the end of act 2

witness is often an important part of this stages, who sees hero 
appear to die

hero witness death can work too, as skywalker sees death of obi wan
hero may witness to death or cause of death

most commond kind of ordeal is battle/confrontation with oppposing force

heros greatest opponent is his own shadow

sometimes it is villain who dies ut they may have other forces, other
shadow to deal with before adventure is over

villains death should not be easy for hero to acoomplish

anyones death has emotional cost, death should be relationship

hero may wound villain at ordeal or kill villains underling

hero cheat death usually with help of mentors gifts

ordeal can be crisis of heart

stories with emotional and psychological depth, ordeal may bring a moment
of mystic marriage within person, balancing of opposing innerforce

hero should have a balanced personality

there may also sacred breakup

ordeal possibiity takes hero to junction of betrayal, abandonment, or
disappoointment

ordeal can be defined as moment hero face his gratest fears

ordeal can be depicted as youth standing up to older generation

ordeal in myth signifies death of ego, hero is now fullly part of cosmos
, and reborn into a new consciousness of connections

hero facing ordeal has moved her cetner from ego to self, to the more
godlike part of her

after ordeal, they go on to reap consequences of defying death

1. What is the Ordeal in The Silence of the Lambs} The Prince of Tides} Pretty Woman} 

2. What is the Ordeal in your story? Does your story truly have a villain? Or is there 
simply an antagonist? 

3. In what way is the villain or antagonist the hero's Shadow? 

4. Is the villain's power channeled through partners or underlings? What special 
functions do these parts perform? 

5. Can the villain also be a Shapeshifter or Trickster? What other archetypes might 
a villain manifest? 

6. In what way does your hero face death in the Ordeal? What is your hero's greatest 
fear? 