Return with the Elixir

having survived all the ordeals, having lived thorugh death, heroes 
return to their starting place, go home, or continue the journey.

but they always proceed with a sense that they are commencing a new life,
one that will be forever different because of road just traveled

if they are true heroes, return with the elixir from special world. 
bringing something to share with others, or soemthing with power
to heal a wounded land/


plotlines are knotted together to create confict and tension, and usually
its desirable to release the tension and resolve conflicts by untying 
these knots. 

story is weaving and it must be finished properly or it will seem 
tangled or ragged.

its important in return to deal with subplots and all issues and 
questions you've raised in the story

its alright for return to raise new questions, but old questions should
be addressed or at least restated

ending can be circular which there is sense of closure and completion
another would be open-ended approach which there is sense of unanswered
questions, ambiguities, and unresolved conflicts

most popular would be circular or closed form, in which narrative returns
to starting point

having hero return to starting point remember how she started allows
you to draw a comparison for the audience. 

it gives a measure of how far your hero has come, changed, and how her 
old world looks different now.

writers will sometimes put their heros through an experience at the 
return that was difficult or impossible for them at beginning, so 
audience can see how they have changed. 

weddings are popular way to end stories, marriage is new beginning

striking up a new relationship is another way to show a new beginning 
at the end of story

some prefer open ended form
story telling goes on after the story is over, it continues in the minds
and hearts of the audience, in the conversations and even arguments people
have in cofee shops arfter seeng movie/reading book

writers of open ended prefer to leave moral conclusions for reader/viewre
some questions have no answers, some have many.

some stories end not by answering questions or solving riddles, but by
posing new questions that resonate in audience long after story is over


for realistic, open-ended form may be appropriate

return is last chance to touch emotions of the audience, it must 
finish your story so that it satisfies or provokes your audience as 
you intended, 

it bears special weight because of its unique position at the end of the 
work, and its also a place of pitfalls for writers and their heroes

return can fall flat if everything is resolved too neatly or just as
expected. 

good return should untie plot threads with certain amount of surprise

return may have twist to it, this is another case for misdirection

return can handout final rewards and punishments

hero's should get what's coming to them as well. 

bringing back elixir is hero's final test 
returning with elixir can be literal or metaphoric


it may be any of things that drie people to undertake journey.

best elixirs are those that bring hero and audience greater awareness

if traveler does'nt bring back something to share, he's shit

love is one of most powerful and popular elixirs
it can be reward the hero doesn't win until after a final sacrifice

elixir forces change not only to them but to those around them

common and powerful elixir is for heroes to take wider responsivility at 
return

hero's center has moved from ego to self.

elixir is heroes taking rueful look back at their wrong turns on the 
path. 

he is sadder but wiser 
elixir he bears away is bitter medicine but it may keep him from making 
same error again, and his pain serves as fair warning 
to the audience not to choose a path.

hero is acknoledging he's been fool which is first step to recovery
if he doesnt recognize he is sadder but no wiser

1. What is the Elixir of Basic Instinct) Big) City Slickers) Fatal Attraction) Dances with 
Wolves) 
2. What is the Elixir your hero brings back from the experience? Is it kept to herself 
or is it shared? 
diploma, both

3. Does your story go on too long after the main event or climax is over? What would 
be the effect of simply cutting it off after the climax? How much denouement do 
you need to satisfy the audience? 
a little more time
4. In what ways has the hero gradually taken more responsibility in the course of the 
story? Is the Return a point of taking greatest responsibility? 
can do it by himself
5. Who is the hero of the story now? Has your story changed heroes, or have char
acters risen to be heroes? Who turned out to be a disappointment? Are there any 
surprises in the final outcome? 
still him, yep, none, uhm maybe
6. Is your story worth telling? Has enough been learned to make the effort worth
while? 
not yet

7. Where are you in your own Hero's Journey? What is the Elixir you hope to bring 
back?

trials, to be published 