Mythic Structure for Writers - Ordinary world

ordinary world
    mythological approach to story boils down using metaphors or 
    comparisons to get across your feelings about life

    title 
        important clue to nature of story and writers attitude
    opening image 
        can be a powerful tool to create mood and suggest where the
        story will go 
    prologue
        some stories begin with a prologue section that precedes
        the main body of the story

    ordinary world is context, home base, and background of hero
    in one sense is the  place you came from last

    make ordinary world as different as possible from the special world
    so audience and hero will experience dramatic change when the
    treshold is finally crossed

    another important function or ordinary world is to suggest the 
    dramatic question of the story 
    every good story poses a series of questions about the hero
    ever hero needs an inner and outer problem

    how audience first experiences your hero is another important
    condition you control as storyteller(what is he doing, wearing, around
    him, how they react to him, attitude, emotion, and goal atm)

    to introduce hero to audience, they must be relatable. 

    opening scenes should create an identification between audience
    and hero 

    create identification by giving heroe's universal goals, drives,
    desires or needs
    identification with universal needs establishes bond between 
    audience and hero

    heros lack something, or something is taken away from themselves
    
    may posses many admirable qualities but among them is one tragic flaw
    that puts them at odds with their destiny, fellow men or gods.
    ultimately it leads to their destruction
    example of tragic flaw would be arrogance/pride

    every well rounded hero has trace of tragic flaw, some weakness
    or fault that makes him thoroughly human and real 

    heros' seeming to be well adjusted and in control masks a deep
    psychic wound
    most of us have some old pain that we don't think about all the time

    humanize a hero/any character, give her/him a wound, physical
    injury or deep emotional wound

    establish whats at stake, what does the hero stand to gain or 
    lose in the adventure, 
    what will be the consequence for the hero,society, and the world if
    hero succeeds or fails

    stakes must be high enough

    ordinary world is the most appropriate place to deal with
    exposition and backstory
    backstory is all relevant inormation about a character's history
    and background, what got her to the situation at the beginning
    of the story
    exposition is art of gracefull revealing backstory and any other
    pertinent information about the plot. 

    let the audience figure things as story unfolds
    theme of story is underlying statement that helps determine 
    a future course


todo

1. What is the Ordinary World of Big? Fatal Attraction? The Fisher King? Look at a film, 
play, or story of your choice. How does the author introduce the hero? Reveal 
character? Give exposition? Suggest the theme? Does the author use an image to 
foreshadow or suggest where the story is going? 

2. In your own writing, how well do you know your hero? Do a complete biographical 
sketch, specifying personal history, physical description, education, family back
ground, job experiences, romances, dislikes and prejudices, preferences in food, 
clothes, hair, cars, etc. 

3. Do a timeline, specifying what the character was doing and where he was at every 
stage of life. Find out what was going on in the world at these times. What ideas, 
events, and people have been the greatest influences on your character? 

4. How is your story's hero incomplete? Get specific about the character's needs, 
desires, goals, wounds, fantasies, wishes, flaws, quirks, regrets, defenses, weaknesses, 
and neuroses. What single characteristic could lead to your hero's destruction 
or downfall? What single characteristic could save her? Does your character 
have both an inner and an outer problem? Does she have a universal human need? 
How does she characteristically go about getting that need met? 

5. Make a list of all the points of backstory and exposition that the audience needs 
to know to get the story started. How can those be revealed indirectly, visually, 
on the run, or through conflict? 


6. Do different cultures need different kinds of stories? Do men and women need 
different kinds of stories? How are the heroic journeys of men and women 
different?