Refusal to Call

problem of the hero now becomes how to respond to the call to 
adventure

this halt on road before journey started serves important dramatic
function of signaling the audience that adventure is risky.

natural for heros to first react by trying to dodge adventure
heros most commonly refuse call by stating list of excuses ,these
are temporary roadblocks, usually overcome by urgency of the quest

persistent refusal can be disastrous

heros may have to choose between conflicting calls from different
levels of adventure

refusal to call is a time to articulate heros' difficult choices

this is usually negative but sometimes positive and wise move of
the hero

others dont hesitate or voice any fear

heroes who overcome their fear and commit to an adventure may
still be tested by powerful figures who raise the banner of fear
and doubt, questioning hero's very worthiness to be in game, they
are called threshold guardians

threshold guardians serves another importnat function, because 
she poses a dramatic question for the audience
the doubt is more interesting than knowing the hero will rise to 
every ocassion

heros inevitably violate limits set by mentors or threshold guardians
due to what we call the Law of secret door, its just interesting 
and sparks the curiosity

refusal may be subtle moment, perhaps just word or two of hesitation
between receiving and accepting a call 
refusal maybe a single step near the beginning of the journey,

or it may be encountered at every step of the way, depending on
nature of the hero

refusal maybe an opportunity to redirect focus of adventure

hero hesitates at threshold to experience the fear, to let the 
audience know the formidality of challenges ahead. but eventually
fear is overcome or set aside, often with help of wise, protective
forces or magical gifts, representing the energy of next stage, 
meeting with mentor

1. How does the hero Refuse the Call in Fatal Attraction} Pretty Woman) A League of 
Their Own) Is Refusal of the Call or reluctance a necessary stage for every story? 
For every hero?

2. What are the heroes of your story afraid of? Which are false fears or paranoia? 
Which are real fears? How are they expressed? 

3. In what ways have they refused Calls to Adventure, and what are the consequences 
of Refusal? 

4. If the protagonists are willing heroes, are there characters or forces that make the 
dangers clear for the audience? 
 
5. Have you refused Calls to Adventure, and how would your life be different if you 
had accepted them? 

6. Have you accepted Calls to Adventure that you wish you had refused?