Tests, Allies, Enemies - Road of trials

hero fully enters myterious world which joseph campbell call 
a dreamscape of curiously fluid, ambiguous forms, where he must
survive a succession of trials

he's a fresh man again in this special world

audience's first impression of the special world should strike
a sharp contrast with the ordinary world

even if hero remains physically in same place throughout story,
there is movement and change as new emotional territory is explored

special world even a figurative one has different feel, different
rhythm, priorities and values, and different rules. 


most important function of this period of adjustment to the special
World is testing

storytellers use this phase to test the hero, putting him through 
series of trials and challenges that are meant to prepare her for 
greater ordeals ahead.


tests at beginning of this period are often difficult obstacles, 
but they don't have maximum life and death quality of later events

tests maybe a continuation of mentor's training. many mentors 
accompany their heroes this far into adventure, coaching them 
for the big rounds ahead

tests may also be built into the architecture or landscape of 
special world, which is usually dominated by villain or shadow
who is careful to suround world with traps, barricades, and 
ehckpoints.

common for hero to fall into these traps, how hero deals with these
traps is part of testing

another function of this stage is making of allies/enemies. 
its natural for heroes just arriving in special world to spend some
time figuring out who can be trusted and relied upon for special 
services, and who is not to be trusted, this test too to examin
if hero is good judge of character


heroes may walk into test stage looking for information, but they may
walk out with new friends or allies

sidekicks? yes


testing stage may also provide opportunity for forging of a team

can also make bitter enemies at this stage, they may encounter shadow
or his servants, heros appearance in the special world maytip the 
shadow to his arrival and trigger a chain of threatening events

rival is special type of enemy whowas just trying to defeat him in
the competition

new rules of special world must be learned quickly by the hero
and the audience

why do so many heroes pass through bars and saloons at this point
in the stories

answer lies in the hunting metaphor of the hero's journey
upon leaving ordinaryworld hunters will often head straight for 
a watering hole to look for a game, predators sometimes follow muddy
tracks left by game who came down to drink

crossing of first threshold may have been long, lonely, and dry.
bars are natural spots to recuperate, pickup gossip, make friends
and confront enemies

phase of tests allies, and enemies in stories is useful for 
getting to know you scenes where characters get acquianted with 
each other and audience learns more about them


1. What is the Testing phase of Sister Acù A League of Their Own) Big} Why do heroes 
pass through a period of Tests? Why don't they just go right to the main event 
after entering Act Two? 

2. How does your story's Special World differ from the Ordinary World? How can 
you increase the contrast?
madilim, creatures

3. In what ways is your hero Tested, and when does she make Allies or Enemies? 
Keep in mind there is no "right" way. The needs of the story may dictate when 
alliances are made. 

determination, allies

4. Are there loner heroes who have no Allies?
    yeah
5. Is your hero a single character or a group such as a platoon, a crew, a family, or a 
gang? If it is an "ensemble piece" like The Breakfast Club or The Big Chill, when does 
the team become a coherent group? 
no

6. How does your hero react to the Special World with its strange rules and 
unfamiliar people? 
carry onwith it, 