The Road Back

decending is easy, ascending is hard. 

//heroes pay the price, 


once rewards of great ordeal have been celebrated, hero has a choice to 
remain in special world or begin journey home to ordinary world

few heroes stay, most take the road Back

this is a time when story's energy after being quiet in seizing sword
has been revved up again.

road backs marks time when heros rededicate themselves to adventure
platue of comfort has been reached and heroes must be pried off that
plateau, either by their own inner resolve or external force

inner resolve might be scene of tired commander rallying troops after 
battle

external force might be an alarm, clock ticking, or renewed threat by 
villain. heroes may be reminded of ultimate goal of adventure

this is a turning point, it may cause a change in the aim of the story

story about achieving goal becomes story of escape, focus on physical
danger shifts to emotional risks

road back causes third act, 

it can be another moment of crisis that set hero on new and final 
road of trials

rocket fuel maybe fear of retaliation or pursuit

often heroes are motvated to hit road back when forces they have defied 
in ordeal now rally and strike back at them,

retaliation
    heroes learn that villains or shadows are not completely defeated in 
    crisis can rise up stronger than before

    neuroses, flaws, habits and desires or addiction we have challenged 
    may retreat fo a time, but can rebound in a last ditch defense or 
    desperate attack before being vanquished forever

    avenging force may strike costly blow to hero's fortunes, wounding 
    him or killing on of his cohorts.

    villain might also steal back the elixir or kidnap one of the hero's 
    friends in retaliation, this could lead to rescue chase, or both.

chase scenes

    in many cases heroes leave speical world only because they are running
    for their lives.
    chases may occure in any part of story
    chases are useful for torquing up a story's energy

magic flight

    chase that involves whimsical transformation of objects
    motif stands for hero's attempts to stall avenging forces in anyway
    possible by throwing down "protective interpretations, principles,
    symbols, rationalizations, anything to delay and absorb" their power

    what hero throws down in chase may also represent a sacrifice, leaving 
    behind of something of value.

    hero can be pursued by admirer
    hero can be pursued by shadow/villain

another twist by road back maybe a sudden catastrophic reversal of hero's
good fortune.
heroes may encounter setbacks that seem to doom adventure

road back at the end of act two maybe a brief moment or an elaborate 
sequence of events

almost every story needs moment to acknowledge the hero's 

resolve to finish, and provide hero with necessary motivation to return 
home with elixir despite temptations of special world and the trials
that remain ahead

hero's gather up what they have learned, gained, stolen, or been granted
in the special world. 

they set themselves a new goal, to escape, find further adventure, or
return home. 

before any of those goals, there is another test to pass, the final
exam of the journey, resurrection


1. What is The Road Back in A League of Their Own! Awakenings! Unforgiven) Terminator 

2? From the writer's point of view, what are the advantages and disadvantages of 
heroes being ejected or chased from the Special World? Of leaving voluntarily? 
ejected? new turning point in story, revving up tension, 

2. What have you learned or gained from confronting death, defeat, or danger? Did 
you feel heroic? How can you apply your feelings to your writing, to the reactions 
of your characters? 
yep, later
3. How do your heroes rededicate themselves to the quest? 
realization

4. What is The Road Back in your story? Is it returning to your starting place? 
Setting a new destination? Adjusting to a new life in the Special World? 

returning to starting place

5. Find the Act Two/Act Three turning points in three current feature films. Are 
these single moments or extended sequences? 

6. Is there an element of pursuit or acceleration in these sections? In The Road Back 
section of your own story? 

maybe, well see