Call to an Adventure

ordianry world is static but unstable condition
seeds of change and growth are planted, energy to change those is called the call to an adventure

some event is necessary to get the stone rolling

may come in form of message/messenger
new event like war

maybe simply stirring within the hero, messenger from unconscious
bearing new that its time for change
signals sometimes come in the form of dreams, fantasies or visions

they may just fed up with things as they are, builds up until hero
cant bear it no more nand proceeds

universal human need is driving him, but it takes one last miserable
day in diner to push him over the edge

string of accidents or coincidence maybe the message that calls
hero to journey

call of adventure may summon hero with temptation 

call to adventure if often delivered by a character in story 
that manifests the archetype of the Herald. 

herald will always sere to get story rollling by presenting hero 
with an invitation or challenge to face the unknown.

often heros are unaware there is anything wrong with their ordinary
world and don't see any need for change

job of hero is to announce that world of hero is unstable and must 
be put back into healty balance by action, taking risks and by 
undertaking the adventure

can be often unsettling and disorienting to the hero

can be in the form of loss or subtraction

hero may be simply running out of options

not all calls to adventure are positive summonses. they may also
dire warnings of doom for tragic heroes

story can have more than one call to adventure

call to adventure is process of selection
unstable situation arises in society and someone volunteers or 
is chosen to take responsibiltiy

more willing heroes answer to innercals and need no external urging


1. What is the Call to Adventure in Citizen Kane) High Noon? Fatal Attraction! Basic 
Instinct) Moby Dick) Who or what delivers the Call? What archetypes are mani
fested by the deliverer? 

2. What Calls to Adventure have you received, and how did you respond to them? 
Have you ever had to deliver a Call to Adventure to someone else?

3. Can a story exist without some kind of Call to Adventure? Can you think of 
stories that don't have a Call? 

4. In your own story, would it make a difference if the Call were moved to another 
point in the script? How long can you delay the Call and is this desirable? 

5. What is the ideal place for the Call? Can you do without it? 

6. Have you found an interesting way to present the Call or twist it around so it's 
not a cliche?
 
7. Your story may require a succession of Calls. Who is being called to what level 
of adventure?