reward

ordeal passed they now experience consequences of surviving death, 
seize sword of victory and lay claim to their reward

its natural to celebrate
campfire scenes
lovescenes
taking posession of whatever she came seeking

other heros steal magic thing at heart story, it must be taken

heroes may find surviving death grants new powerr of better perceptions
hero may granted new insight or understanding of mystery as hero reward
hero may share power of immortal gods
profound self-realization
others may see clearly too (epiphany)

may lead to some distortions of perception, may suffer from inflation of 
ego

heroes may be tainted by the very death or evil they came to fight
bloodshed and murder are powerful forces and may intoxicate or poison a hero
another error heros may commit is simply underestimate signifance of 
supreme ordeal

someone hit by hammer of change may deny that anything has happened

denial after encounter with death is one of natural stages of grief 
and recovery, anger is another, 

heor may also overestimate their own importance or prowers after a duel
with death, they may soon findout that they are just lucky first time, 
and will have other encounters with danger that will teach them their 
limits


hero's must turn back to quest

1. What is the modern equivalent of a campfire scene in Thelma & Louise) Sister Act) 
Ghost) 

2. What do the heroes of your stories learn by observing death? By causing death? 
By experiencing death? 

3. What do the heroes of your story take possession of after facing death or their 
greatest fears? What is the aftermath, the consequence, of the major event of 
Act Two? Have your heroes absorbed any negative qualities from the Shadow or 
villain? 

4. Does the story change direction? Is a new goal or agenda revealed in the Reward 
phase? 

5. Is the aftermath of the Ordeal in your story an opportunity for a love scene? 

6. Do your heroes realize they have changed? Is there self-examination or realization 
of wider consciousness? Have they learned to deal with their inner flaws? 

