Meeting with the Mentor

sometimes its not a bad idea to refuse a call until you've
had time to prepare for the zone unknown that lies ahead

hero's almost always make a contact with some source of 
wisdom beforee committing to an adventure
they may seek out experience of those who have gone beforee

meeting with mentor is stage rich in potential for 
conflict, involvement, humor and tragedy, its based in 
an emotional relationship

audience is extremely familiary with the mentor archetype
defy the archetype, 

audiences dont mind about being misledabout a mentor from time to 
time

mentor hero relationship can tak etragic of deadly if hero is 
ungrateful or violence prone

sometimes mentor turns villains or betrays the hero

mentors sometimes disappoint the heros who have admired them during
appreticeship

sometimes story is built around mentor

mentors can be regarded as heroes who have become experienced 
enough to teach others 

mentors appearance is critical to get the story past blockades of 
doubt and fear

mentors can provide humor of deep, tragic relationships


1. Who or what is the Mentor in Fatal Attraction) Pretty Woman) The Silence of the 
Lambs) 

2. Think of three long-running TV series. Are there Mentors in these shows? What 
functions do these characters serve? 

3. Is there a character in your story who is a full-blown Mentor? Do other characters 
wear the mask of the Mentor at some point? 

4. Would it benefit the story to develop a Mentor character if there is none? 

5. What Mentor functions can be found or developed in your story? Does your hero 
need a Mentor? 

6. Does your hero have some inner code of ethics or model of behavior? Does your 
hero have a conscience and how does it manifest itself ? 

7. Raiders of the Lost Ark and Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom portray a hero who 
has no apparent Mentor. He learns things from people along the way, but there 
is no special character set aside for that task. The third film in the series, Indiana 
Jones and the Last Crusade, introduces the character of Indy s father, played by Sean 
Connery. Is he a Mentor? Are all parents Mentors? Are yours? In your stories, 
what is the attitude of your hero to the Mentor energy? 