every story begins with "whatif" 

something out of ordinary

whats your point? 
point will tell exactly what kind of internal problem story will be about 

eg. points

friends stick together when times are tough
    - group of friends will face a tough problem to challenge loyalty to each other 

believe in yourself when others don't
    character will want to tackle something touch she's never done before, when everyone
    tries to convince her giveup, she'll muster inner courage to give it her all

think about how others will feel before you act
    character will really want to do something that might hurt someone else, and will 
    have to struggle with whether do it or not

=====
    either prove your point or break it

these points provide a window to hard internal choice that those big internal struggle 
will force protagonist to confront 


====
    point is what is borne out of protagonists internal struggle
        he thinks what others feel when he decide, what if she do it all along? 
    what if centers on external plot that will trigger struggle, making or breaking a point


"what if" is personal and high at stake


stpe 1 
    write about idea youre working with
step 2
    why do you care about the story
step 3
    what are you trying to say about human nature. the point/theme
    nail the point of your story
step 4
    write "what if", the internal struggle 
    have something specific, with context, and a hint or surprise
    something that will make your point

step 5
    write thumbnail sketch of who your protagonist is before novel starts, 
    short and to the point
    person inside? 
    what do they believe? 
    what do they want? 
    infure what protagonist has don with internal reason why they did it?
    its about why

why does your protagonist care? 
    things they carry   
        deep seated desire
        defining misbeliefe that stands in way of achieving that desire 

step 6
    write short paragraph about what character enters novel wanting, even if she doesn't 
    think she has chance of getting it 
    be specific as possible

step 7 
    why does she wants what she wants? 
    what getting it will mean to her? 
    what protagonist thinks achieving her goal will mean to her turns out to be very wrong.

step 8
    try defining protagonists misbelief, as concise as possible
    write what she wants, and what fear is that keeping her from achieving it 
    given her misbelief what does she think the very worst thing that could happen 
    would be? 
    spend time exploring

step 9 
    envision moment protagonist life when his misbelief took root? 
    every character filters world through his own intenral logic
    find defining moment in their past

step 10 
    answer these questions
    
    what does my protagonist go into the scene believing? why? 
    what is protagonist goal in the scene? 
    what does my protagonist expect will happen in the scene? 

step 11
    capture the moment when your protagonist worldview shifted, and her misbelief took 
    root in her brain, where its been coloring how she's seen the world from that moment on.
    write a full fledged scene, always try again

there is always reason for everythng
we turn to stories to find out real reason

write protagonist who is relatable, flawed and vulnerable


step 12 
    protagonsist past is big part of novel's force of opposition because it tells you 
    what your protagonist is up -- internal and external
    write 3 turning point scenes that will yeield most story-specific info,
    3 turning points must build up on each other
    write it into the scene

novel starts when life will no longer allow protagonist to put off going
after that thing he's long wanted, regardless of how much his misbelief, 
he sit this one out 

unavoidable external force
problem that we can't dodge, duck or deflect, giving us no choice but 
to take action

as novel begins protagoist has most likely spent a good bit of time 
downplaying, postponing and often ignoring the urge to change

what unavoidable external change will make him force to go to internal
battle? 

test 1 
can problem sustain entire novel from first page to last? 
can problem build?

there must be something clear and definite that will occur if protagonist
fails or dont take action, cannot be vague conceptual or iffy.

is there a clear cut deadline, ticking clock counting down to that 
consequence? 

    run list of potential plot problems through test, be ruthless,
    dillemas that have passed external test now have to face internal test


test 2
is problem capable of forcing protagonist to make innerchange that your 
novel is actually about? 

will problem's impending consequence force protagonist to struggle with her
misbelief?


will the approaching consequence cost him something big -- emotionally 
speaking? 


step 13
    run remaining plot problems through test 2, unti you've winnowed
    them down to a single, overarching dillema that touches 
    story's third rail. dont skip over tweak
    must meet both tests

step 14
    sketch out ticks that lead to opening scene
    find tick that catapults protagonist into unavoidalbe action (eg. consequence)
    there must be a sense that protagonist must and act now
    keep trying til you get there 

step 15
    write opening scene

    plot 
        cause and then effect
    third rail 
        why it matters, realization and so? 

the ending we are looking for isnt just about what happens plotwise
its about what your protagonist realizes as she faces it headon

not that she makes change, its how she gets there   -- internally
that counts, 

let protagonist earn revelation
    deep satisfaction is not based on what he has achieved externally
    but how he changed internally, giving him insight to make it happen

    its not that he solved problem, its what he learned in process
    allow him to earn it

    sometimes it comes just before the end and is what gives protagonist 
    courage to face that final excruciating external hurdle

    sometimes it comes at the very moment protagonist is locked in
    that last all-out battle, and its what give him courage, strength
    and wisdom to keep going against all odds

    "aha!' moment comes right after ward protagonist is making sense 
    of what just happened, it leaves him feeling very differently from
    what he'd expected

put reader in midst of event itself
    plunk us into event that causes her to havve realization in first 
    place

let us be inside protagonist 
    knowing why protagonist does everythng he does is precisely the point

3 questions
    at the end will your protagonist achieve her external goal? 

    what will change for your protagonist internally? 
        at the end your protagonist will return, literally or figuratively,
        to place where she started but as changed human being
        
    what will happen externally in this scene that forces your protagonist to confront, 
    and hopefully overcome, her misbelief? 
        aha moment is instant when protagonist sees things clearly for very first time, 
        and her internal struggle is resolved, leaving her transformed. 
        aha moment allows protagonist to see things differently to leap last hurdle

        what will happen plotwise that will finally allow her to see her misbelief for 
        waht it is? and when it happens, how will she makes sense of it, internally? 
        just show why

step 16
    answer 3 questions
    concretize elements, internal and external that iwll help you envision this scene 

step 17
    review everything you already know about protagonist 
    make not of memories protagonist might call on during this scene as she struggles to 
    maek sense of what's happening and what she should do about it 

    if she choose to opt out she would lose something she dearly wants(personal)

    write "aha!" scene

build story by creating plot that will constantly force increasingly reluctant protagonist to 
chagne

stakes will be ratcheting forever upward, even in those moments when it seems like storm
has already passed


make card for every scene
write in chronological order

folders
    key characters
    rules of world
    idea list
    scene cards in development - story specific

external events must be related to the story question
keep eyes on prize: protagonists internal struggle 

step 18 
    jot down brief overview of novel, more specific mor developed
    back cover copy

step 19
    make list of potential plot point that springs out

what secrest does your protagonist have, lies she told to others, adn to herself?
what external obstacles have you already planted in the past that will keep your 
protagonist from his current goal -- or help him attain it?

step 20 
    possible obstacles that will twart protagonist in her quest to overcome misbelief

test the plot points
why does my plot need it to happen?
logistically, why can it happen? is it actually possible
why would it happen, given your protagonist inner struggle? 

always make it harder for protagonist

step 21
    take time to gather up any empty swaths of fledgling cause and effect trajectory 
    that are now bereft of concrete plot points
    make them specific 
    "what" to begin digging for "why"
    specifics lead to other specifics

step 22
    sketch out scope of story the way jennie jsut did 
    time frame, how big is your stage
    alwys find "why" to each "what"

focusing on main storyline is making it dull flat and predictable

subplots unfold on same page, in same sentence as main storyline

need to know basis
every subplot must spin off main storyline
subplots are central to story itself

typically spring on these 2 areas
    external events before novel, which have consequences that will affect protagonist's quest
    secondary characters

envision it
subplots tend to revolve around one character

subplots are powerful when already in motion because they give no choice to protagonist 
but to take action

step 23 
    identify anything that might be a potential subplot
    specifics begets specifics
    always ask if those will matter 

each character has own driving agenda, realizations and their own approaching

secondary characters are first and foremost serve protagonist's struggle 
everything they do is geared to have specific effect on protagonist

step 24 
    lsit characters who appeared so far, then select those who you know will play most
    significant roles in your novel.

step 25
    pick character to develop, start with who will appear start first 
    create character who'll either challenge or reaffirm protagonist's misbelief
step 26
    create bio for every secondary character you've identified
    make a list of characters who played in big part of protagonists past 
    who help shaped protagonists story specifc worldview 
    they're who she will think of as she struggles to make sense of what's happening in present

    hwo do you develop characters backstory so that it will supply meaning in present? 


step 27
    see if any of those characters that have story specific bios have shared history with
    protagonist 

protagonist must draw strategic conclusion from everything he/she does 
give reader same experience

protagonist needs to react internally to everything that happens in moment as he struggles
to make sense of it and so bend it to his advantage but in urgency

he can't notice or comment on anything unless he then draws a strategic conclusion that 
affects what he's doing or how interprets what's happening and he must do it always

you must get emotion onto everypage
    emotion emanates from how character makes sense of what's happening, rather than
    mentioning nearest emotion that sums it up 
    put us in their skin as they struggle

stay in protagonists subjective mindset 
    what stokes in story's momentum isnt waht happens but what it costs protagonist 
    internally to make decisions that drive external action
    decisions that appear irrational but completely logical to protagonist, as they 
    are based on subjective beliefs

    to your protagonist everything she does makes complete sense 

subjective lens which protagonist sees world is constantly

step 28
    as you approach each scene, gather everything you know about protagonist and 
    subjective worldview at the moment
        what are they most worried about? 
        how will that affect their judgement in the scene?


ask "why? " in everything until you chased it down to most story specifc flesh and blood
ask "and so" to evrything, 
    why your reader need to know this
    how does this move story forward
    what will happen as result

page 213
