Return Crossing of the Return Threshold

the two worlds, divine and human can only be only pictured as distinct
from each other eg. life and death, day and night. 

hero goes from the land we know into darkness, accomplishes his adventure
there or simply lost to us, imprisoned or in danger, and his return is 
described as coming back out of that yonder zone. 

the great key to understanding myth and symbol- two kingdoms are actually
one. 

realm of gods is forgotton dimension of the world we know, and the 
exploration of that dimension willingly or unwillingly, is the whole
sense of the deed of the hero. 

values and distinction in normal life that seem important disappear
with terrifying assimilation to the self into what formely was only 
otherness. 

fearfulness of this loss of personal individuation can be the whole
burden of transcendental experience for unqualified souls, but the 
hero-soul goes boldly in and discovers the hags converted into goddesses
and dragons into watchdogs of gods. 

from the standpoint of normal waking consciousness, they must always 
remain a certain baffling inconsistency between wisdom brought forth from
the deep and prudence usually found to be effective in light word. hence
common divorce of opportunism from virtue and resultant degeneration of 
human existence. 

The boon brought from transcendent deep becomes quickly rationalized into
non-entity, and need becomes great for another hero to refresh world.

hero's ultimate difficult task 
-hwo teach what has been taught correctly and incorrectly learned a 
thousand times
- render back into light world language speech defying pronouncements
of dark
- represent 3d form in two dimensional surface

many failures attest difficulties of this life affirmative Threshold

first problem of returning hero is
accept as real the passing joys and sorrows, banalities and noisy
obscenities of life after an experience of soul satisfying vision of
fulfillment

equating of single year in paradise to one hundred of eartly existence
is a motif well known to myth. full round of one hundred signifies 
totality. similarly, 360 degress of circle signify totality. 

idea of insulating horse to keep hero out of immediate touch with 
earth and yet permit him to promenade among peoples fo world, is 
vivid example of basic precaution taken generally by carriers of 
supernatural power. 

returning hero to complete his adventure, must survive the impact of 
the world. 

the 2 demons gave the prince of persia and princess of china a chance
to see each other while the other one is asleep, which then returned to 
their original places before they woke up after they slept beside each 
other.

encounter and separation is typical of sufferings of love. for when a 
heart insists on its destiny, resisting the general blandishment, then 
the agony is great; so too is danger. forces will have been set in motion
beyond the senses. sequences of events from the corners of world will 
draw gradually together, and miracles of coincidence bring inevitable to 
pass.

this is a sign of hero's requirement now, to knit together his two worlds.

not everyone has a destiny: only the hero who has plunged to touch it 
and has come up again with a ring;
