Return - Master of the Two Worlds

the talent of the master is the freedom to pass back and forth accross
world division, from perspective of apparitions of time to that of the 
causal deep and back -- not contaminating principles of one with those
of the other, yet permitting the mind to know the one by virtue of the 
other. 

myths does'nt often display in single image mystery of ready transit. 
where they do, the moment is precious symbol, full of import to be 
treasured and contemplated(eg. transfiguration of jesus christ)

it should be observed that this eternal moment soars beyond kamar 
al-zamans romanti realization of his individual destiny.

not only we have masterly passage back and forth, across world threshold
but we observe a profounder, very much profounder penetration of depths. 

whaat is the tenor of the image of transfiguration? 

one disciple has been blessed with a vision of an entity transcending the 
scope of normal human destiny, and amounting to a glimpse of the essential
nature of the cosmos. the fate of mankind, life as a whole, atom and all
solar systems, has been opened to him, befitting his human understanding
which is he saw the cosmic man. 

race and stature of figure symbolizing the immanent and transcendent 
Universal is of historical, so also COsmic woman is as eloquent as symbol
as cosmic man.

symbols are just vehicles for communication and must not be mistaken for
the final term, the tenor of their reference. 

another is that transfiguration of christ was witnessed by devotees who had 
extinguished their personal wills by complete self-renouncement in the master.

the individual through prolonged psychological disciplines, gives up 
completely all attachment to his personal limitations, idiosyncracies, 
hopes and fears, no longer resists self-annihilation that is prerequisite
to rebirth in the realization of thruth, and so become ripe, at last
for the great at-one-ment. 

personal ambitions totally dissolved, he no longer tries to live but willingly
relaxes to whatever may come to pass in him, he becomes the anonymity.
law lives to him with his unreserved consent.

many are the figures who represent this ultimate state of anonymous 
presence

