The mythological hero, setting forth from his common-day hut or castle, 
is lured, carried away, or else voluntarily proceeds, to the threshold 
of adventure. There he encounters a shadow presence that guards the
passage. The hero may defeat or conciliate this power and go alive into
the kingdom of the dark (brother-battle, dragonbattle; offering, charm), 
or be slain by the opponent and descend in death (dismemberment, 
crucifixion). Beyond the threshold, then, the hero journeys through a 
world of unfamiliar yet strangely intimate forces, some of which severely 
threaten him (tests), some of which give magical aid (helpers). When he 
arrives at the nadir of the mythological round, he undergoes a supreme 
ordeal and gains his reward. The triumph may be represented as the hero's 
sexual union with the goddess-mother of the world (sacred marriage), his
recognition by the father-creator (father atonement), his own divinization 
(apotheosis), or again—if the powers have remained unfriendly to him—his 
theft of the boon he came to gain (bride-theft, fire-theft); intrinsically
it is an expansion of consciousness and therewith of being (illumination,
transfiguration, freedom). The final work is that of the return. 
If the powers have blessed the hero, he now sets forth under their 
protection (emissary); if not, he flees and is pursued (transformation
flight, obstacle flight). At the return threshold the transcendental
powers must remain behind; the hero re-emerges from the kingdom of dread 
(return, resurrection). The boon that he brings restores the world (elixir).

this outlines are subject to damage and obscuration, archaic traits are
generally eliminated or subdued. imported materials are revised to fit
local landscape, custom or belief and always suffer in process. 
accidental or intentional dislocations are inevitable. 
to account for elements that have become, for one reason or another,
meaningless, secondary interpretations are invented, often with
considerable skill. 

later stages of many mythologies, key images hide like needles in 
haystack of secondary anecdote and rationalization: for when civilization
has passed from mythical to secular point o fview, images are no longer
felt or quite approved. 

eg. gods in greece were reduced to civic patrons, household pets and 
literary faves

wherever poetry of myth is interpreted as biography, history or science
it is killed. living images become only remote facts from distant time
or sky.

to bring images back to life, one has to seek, not interesting applications
to modern affairce, but illuminating hints from inspired past. when these
are found, vast ares of half-dead iconography disclose again their 
permanently human meaning.


mythological symbols have to be followed through all of their implications
before they open out the full system of correspondences through which
they represent, by, analogy, the millenial adventure of the soul

329