cognitive: 
    our brains primary goal is to make causal connections - if this, then that.

story secret: 
    story follows cause and effect trajectory from start to finish.

story arises from conflict between "one thing we thought was going to happen" 
and "what happened instead" 

why "show, don't tell" is matter of  why rather than what, 

then "and so?" test to guarantee that neither cause-and-effect trajectory ever goes off
the rails.

life and story are driven by emotions, but what they ordered by is logic 

logic is yang to emotions yin

action-reaction-decision is what drives story forward 

story must follow a cause and effect trajectory so when your protagonist 
finally tackles her ultimate goal, the path that led her there not only is clear but
in hindsight reveals exactly why this confrontation was inevitable from very start

everything in story should be predictable from the satisfying perspective of "the end" 

to create story reader will care about, narrative must follow an emotional cause and effect
trajectory from outset by obeying basic laws of physical universe.

"you can't get somehting from nothing" 

2 levels of cause and effect 
    a story plays out on two levels at one -- protagonist internal struggle (what story is
    actually about) and external levels (plot)

    1. plot wise - cause and effect on surface level, one event logistically triggers next
        joe pops clydes shiny red baloon: joe gets kicked out of clown school

    2. story wise - cause and effect plays out on a deeper level -- of meaning. 
        why joe pops clydes baloon, even though he knows it will probably get him expelled.

    
stories are about how what happens affects someone, the "why" carries more weight than "what" 

"why" comes first, because it drives the "what" 
"why" is cause, "what" is the effect.

story-wise cause and effect is not abut how protagonist gets from point a to point b, it
is about why.

internal story-level cause and effect trajectory tracks evolution of protagonists inner issue.

it reveals how he makes sense of what happens in light of his goal, and how he arrives 
at the decision that catapults him into next scene.


myth: "show, dont tell" is literal, dont tell me he is sad, show him crying
reality: "show, dont tell" is figurative, dont tell me he is sad, show me why he's sad

lets see the events itself unfold, instead of telling us an event, show us 

1. if you tell us after fact john was fired, its a done deal. if you show us scene which 
john goes to board meeting, we get to see it, anything can happen there. 
2. if we watch meeting, we'll learn why john was fired and how he reacted in the moment. 

"showing" is how characters arrived at those conclusions in first place.

"show" train of thought, the reasoning that led him to change his mind. 

dont tell me he changed his mind, show me how he arrived at the decision

is "show, don't tell" refer to something physical? yes in two instances

1. when we already know the "why" 
2. when subject at hand is purely visual

since internal and external stori revolves around whether protagonist achives his goal, 
each turn of cause and effect wheel, large and small must bring him close to answer.

by relentlessly winnowing away everything that stands in his way until clock runs down 
to "now" or never

every time protagonist makes decision, story sits back with great big grind and say, 
"oh yeah? prove it" 

to guarantee that the stakes rachet ever upward, you want to make sure you've infused
each cause with enough firepower to trigger an effect that packs unexpected yet perfectly
logical wallop.

by solving one problem he created a even bigger one, 

goal is to be sure each individual scene effectively uses its specific "action, reaction, 
decision" to evoke maximum tension and to up the odds 

ask 
    what does my protagonist want to have happen during this scene? when established ask
    what is at stake here? 

when you finish it, before diving into next scene, ask yourself these
    has protagonist changed? 
        he should start out feeling one way and end up feeling another, often exact opposite
        of how he originally felt.

    having weighed his options, given what was at stake, and then made decision, does he 
    now see things differently than he did when scene opened? 

    do we know why he made decision he did? 
        do we understand how he arriaved, even his reasoning is flawed?
        can we see how this changed his assessment of what's going on and how he's adjusted
        his game plan accordingly?

its protagonist internal reaction to what happens that not only dictate what happens next
but also give it meaning.

cause and efffect doesnt mean predictable

mastering relationship between internal and exxternal cause and effect allows you to 
tease the reader in ways she actually enjoy. here are 4 areas of delicious unpredictability

1. clear cause and effect pattern is what allows us to focus on story's continual wild card:
    what protagonist will actually do given what he has to overcome

2. theres an appearance of free will

3. characters are famous for utterly misreading signs and rushing headlong in the absolute 
wrong direction

4. strategically revealed new information can change how protagonist change how reader 
interprets protagonist's motives from that point on.


every scene must
    someway be caused by devision made in the sense that preceded it
    move story forward via character's reaction to what is happening
    make scene that follow it inevitable
    provide insight into characters that enable us to grasp motive behind their actions

how to gauge if scene is part of great chain of cause and effect 
    does scene impart crucial piece of information, without which some future scene wont 
    make sense? 

    does it have clear cause reader can see(even real reason will be revealed later)

    does it provide insight into why characters acted as they did? 

    does it raise readers expectation of specific, imminent aaction? 

math test
    if i cut it out, would anytihng that happens afterward change? 
    if answers no, its got to go.


a car going zooming at 60, then the writer saw fields of flowers and suddenly braked. 

"successfull book is not made of what is in it, but what is left out." 

testing scene 
    what does this piece of information tell us that we need to know? 
    what's the point? 
    how does it further the story? 
    what consequences does it lead to? 

    answer these questions

checkpoint 
    does your story follow a cause and effect trajectory beginning on page one, so that scene
    is triggered by the one that preceded it/
        set line of dominoes, tap a first one and the rest will follow!

    does everything in your story's cause and effect trajectory revolve around protagonists
    quest? 
        if it doesnt, get rid of it

    are you story's external events(plot) urged by protagonists evolving internal 
    cause and effect trajectory? 

    when your protagonist makes decision, it is always clear how she arrived at it,
    especially when she's changing her mind about something? 
        just you know what protagonist is thinking doesnt mean readers will

    does each scene follow the action, reaction, decision pattern? 

    can you answer the "and so" to everything in story


