How to Hook the Reader

https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/real-life-zombies/

Cognitive Secret: 
    We think in story, which allows us to envision the future.

Story secret: 
    From the very first sentece, reader must want to know what happens next.


we think in story, its hardwired in our brain
brain constantly seeks meaning ffrom all input thrown at it 
rather than recording everything on a fcfs basis, our brain casts us as 
protagonist and then edits our experience with cinema like precision, creating logical
interrelations, 
mapping connection sbetween memories, ideas and events for future reference

story is language of experience, whether its urs, someone's else 
or that of fictional characters 

2 key concepts that underlie cognitive secrets in this books

1. neuroscientists believe the reason our already overloaded brain devots so much 
precious time and space to allowing us to get lost in a story is that without stories.
we'd be toast.

stories allow us to simulate intence experience without actually having to live through them
story evolved as way to explore our own mind nad minds of others, as a sort of dress 
rehearsal for the future.

2. not only do we crave story, we have very specific hardwired expectations for 
every story we read even thorugh chances are nothing that average reader could tell you 
what those expectations are. 
our expectations have everything todo with the story's ability to provide information on
how we might safely navigate this earthly plane. 

to that end we run them through our own very sophisticated subconscious sense of what a story 
is supposed to do: 
    plunk someone with a clear goal into an increasingly difficult situation they then 
    have to navigate

when story meets our brain's criteria, we relax and slip into protagonist's skin, eager to 
experience what his/her struggle feels like, without having to leave comfort of home.

all those are incredibly use full because it neatly defines what a story is, and what its
not. 

we'll examine 4 elements that make up what a story is; 
what we, are wired to expect when we dive into first page of a book and try it on for size;

and why even most lyrical, beautiful writing by itself is as inviting as a big bowl of 
wax fruit.

what is a story

story is not just something that happens, 
story isnt simply something that happens to someone either,
story isnt even something that happens to someone

story is how what happens affect someone who is trying to achieve what turns out to be a
difficult goal, and how he or she changes as a result

"what happens" is plot
"someone" is protagonist
"goal" is story question
"how he or she changes" is what story itself is actually about


stories are about how we change
they grab us only when they allow us to experience how it would feel to navigate the plot

story is an internal journey, not an external one.

all elements of story are anchored in this very simple premise and they work in unison to 
create what appears to the reader as reality, only sharper, clearer, and far more entertaining,
because stories do what our cognitive unconscious does: filter our everything that would
distract us from the situation at hand.

nothing focuses the mind like surprise, meaning when we pick up a book, we're jonesing for 
the feeling that something out of ordinary is happening.
we creave the nation that we've come in at a crucial juncture in someone's life, and not a 
moment soon.

what intoxicates us in the hint that not only is trouble brewing, but its longstanding 
and about to reach critical mass. 

from first sentence we need to catch sigh of breadcrumb trail that will lure us deeper
into thicket.

simply put that we are looking for a reason to care. 

for a story to grab us, not only must something be happening, but also there must be a 
consequence we can anticipate. 
what draws us into a story and keeps us there is the firing of dopamine neurons, 
signaling that intriguing information is on its way.

meaning that whether its 
    an actual event unfolding or 
    we meet protagonist in midst of internal quandary or
    there's merely a hint that something's slightly 'off' on first page

there has to be a ball already in play.
this is not to say that first ball must main ball - can be initial or starter ball.

when the information you gave to readers aroused curiosity, thats when ball comes to play.

on that first page, it has to feel like the only ball and it has to have our 
complete attention.


as readers we eagerly probe each piece of information for significance, wondering
"what is this meant to tell me?"

we are always in hunt for a meaning
we are always looking for the why beneath whats hapening on surface.
because its exhilarating
it makes us feel curiosity
having oru curiosity piqued is visceral and it leads to something even more potent: 
anticipation of knowledge we're now hungry for, sensation caused by that pleasurable
rush of dopamin.
because being curious is necessaryfor survival, nature encourages it
this is why, once your curiosity is roused as reader, you have emotional vested 
interest in finding out what happens next.
and you feel that delicious sense of urgency that all good stories instantly ignite

//give readers an information that arouses their curiosity, something ++9that produces knowledge gap
in their mind.

when whats happening doesnt makes sense, they ignore it.

whats story about?

3 basic things readers relentlessly hunt for as they read that first page: 

1. whose story is it?
    in story, what reader feels is driven by what protagonist feels
    story is visceral, we climb inside protagonists skin and become sensate, feeling what
    he feels
    otherwise we have no port of entry, no point of view through which to see, evaluate,
    and experience the world author has plunked us into

    we need to meet protagonist as soon as possible.
2. what's happening here? 
    something must be happening -- beginning on first page, that protagonist is affected by,
    something that gives us glimpse of big picture,
    "wheneverpossible, tell teh story of nevel in first sentence" 
    big picture cues us to the problem protagonist will spend the story struggling with.
    thus we gauge every event agains that one question
3. what's at stake
    together with first 2, ignites all important sense of urgency
    where's conflict, conflict is story's lifeblood
    we're not talking about just any conflict, but conflict that is specific to 
    protagonist quest
    readers morph into bloodhounds, relentlessly trying to sniff out what is at stake here
    and how will it impact protagonist
    they not quite certain what is quest yet, but thats what they're hoping to find 
    out by asking these questions.
    something must be at stake, beginning on first page

    can all three of these things be there on first page? you bet 

"within brain, things are always evaluated within specific context" 
context that bestows meaning, and it is meaning that your brain is wired to sniff out.


"story is real life with the boring parts left out" - elmore leonard
boring parts as anything that doesnt relate to or affect protagonist quest

including subplots, weather, setting and even tone -- must have a clear impact on what reader
is tryin gto know
    will protagonist achieve her goal?
    what will it cost her in process? 
    how it will change her in the end? 

what hooks us and keeps us reading, is dopamine fueled desire to know what happens next.
without that nothing else matters 

myth: beautiful writing trumps all 
reality: storytelling trumps beautiful writing

checkpoints

do we know whose story it is? 
    there must be someone thorugh whose eyes we are viewing the world we've been plunked 
    into -- aka protagonist
    think of protagonist as reader's surrogate in world that you are creating

is something happening, beginning on first page? 
    dont just set stage for later conflict
    jump right in with something that will affect protagonist 
    make reader hungry to find out what the consequence will be,
    after all, unless something is already happening, how can we want to know what happens next? 

is there conflict in whats happening? 
    will conflict have direct impact on protagonist's quest, even though your reader 
    might not yet know what that quest is? 

is something at stake on first page? 

is there a sense that "all is not as it seems?" 
    this is especially important if the protagonist isn't intrduced in first few pages
    "is there a growing sense of focused foreboding that'll keep reader hooked until 
    protagonist appears in not too distant future?"

can we glimpse enough of "big picture" to have that all improtant yardstick?
    its "big picture" that gives readers perpective and conveys point of each scene,
    enabling them to add things up, if we don't know where the story is going, 
    how can we tell if its moving at all? 

