
cognitive: everything we do is goal oriented. the biggest goal is figuring out
every one else's agenda, the better to achieve our own

story: protagonist without a clear goal has nothing to figure out and nowhere to go

when we read we slip into protagonist skin and what we feel is based on her goal, 
which then defines how she evaluates everything the other characters do

in story, considerations bend to protagonists external goal which bends to her 
internal issue

internal issue is the thing that she struggles with that keeps her from easily 
achieving said goal without breaking a sweat

eg. kratos being a good father, his internal issue is his past

if you dont provide protagonist with a need, everything will seem random

by figuring out what your protagonist want and inner issue she have to 
overcome, you can shape her quest with a confidence born knowing you have 
a sturdy framework to guide you.


job of story is to dig beneath surface and decipher life, not just ot present it.

life says: 'she did this'

what needs ot explained is why protagonist wants what she wants, what it means to her,
and what getting it will cost her

whole point of story is to explore this 'why' and the underlying issue that other people
let on she was struggling with 

thus protagonists true goal is something thats been evolving for years, although she might 
have been completely unaware of it until that very moment.

because desires stems from what it means to him internally, rather than merely what does
for him externally

story doesnt lie in what happens; it beats in what those events mean to protagonist

what fuels external reacton to events is hte internal struggle

its what character causes him to make choices he do

often protagonists external goal changes as story progresses -- that is often what 
reader is rooting for. 

"In It’s a Wonderful Life, George’s internal goal is to make a big difference in the world.
His external goal is to get out of Bedford Falls and build bridges, skyscrapers, 
and to “do big things.” He believes these goals are one and the same. 
The movie then chronicles how his external goal is thwarted at every turn, 
and instead of doing big things, he always does the right thing. 
In the end, that’s precisely how he achieves his internal goal— 
making a big difference in many people’s lives—which brings with it 
the realization that he actually achieved his external goal as well. 
He did do big things—things that are far more important and enduring 
than building skyscrapers. Thus, by achieving his internal goal, he was 
able to redefine his external goal—and, happily, discover that he’d already 
accomplished it. "

up to that moment character fully believed that only by achieving his external goal 
would his internal goal be met. 

we believed that once external goal is achieved so is the internal goal, but thats not
really the case. its only then that we see fallacy of our original assumption 
and begin wondering what we really need to do to achive our internal goal. 

by defining protagonists internal and external goals and pitting them against each other,
you can ignite kind of external tension and internal conflict capable of dribving 
entire narrative.

external plot driven obstacles must overcome to achieve her external goals, which is 
straight forwrad

internal obstacles(emotional and psychological barriers)must be overcome to achieve her 
internal goals ,which make it her internal issue.

it is a voice that whispers "what the hell you think youre doing" that gets more convincing
as things escalate in difficulty until he stops dead at the end, that there is absolutely
no way he'll overcome last hurdle with that voice in his head. 

fears spring from the life experience 

what do these events mean to protagonist? what is the true goal? 

make goal specific to him,

myth: adding external problems inherently adds drama to a story
reality: adding external problems adds drama only if they're something protagonist
must confront to overcome her issue

make sure that everything protagonist faces springs specifically from problem she needs 
to solve, both internally and externally.

having firm understanding of what protagonists specific goals and fears mean to her 
provides yo uwith concrete plot guidelines. 


checkpoints

do you know what your protagonist wants? 
    what does she desire most? what is her agenda

do you know why your protagonist wants what he wants? 
    what does achieving his goal mean to him specifically? 

do you know what your protagonists external goal is? 
    what specific goal does his desire catapult him toward? 
    achieving his goal must fulfill longstanding need for desire, and force
    him to face a deep-seated fear in process

do you know what your protagonists internal goal is? 
    what does achieving her external goal mean to her? 

does your protagonists goal force her to face a specific longstanding problem or fear? 
    what secret terror must she face to get there? 
    what deeply held belief she have to question? 
    what has she spent her whole life avoid that she now must either 
    look straight in the eye or wave the white flag of defeat? 

