
Story is designed from beginning to an end, 
to answer a single overarching question.

we expect every word, every line, every character, every image, every action to 
move us close to answer.

story is going off rails if
    readers have no idea who protagonist is. (help them identify protagonist)
    readers know who protagonist is, doesnt seem to have a goal, so they don't know 
    what the point is or where story is going 

    they know what protagonist's goal, but have no clue what inner issue it forces him to 
    deal with, so everything feels superficial and dull
        (must have inner issue that protagonist have to deal with)

    know the protagonist, both her goal and her issues, but suddenly gets what she wants,
    changes her mind, or gets hit by a bus, and now someone else seems to be main character

    aware of protagonists goal, but what happens doesnt seem to affect him or whether he 
    achieves it

    things that happen don't affect protagonist in a believable way, so not only doesnt 
    she seem like a real person, but we have no idea why she does what she does, which makes 
    it impossible to anticipate what she'll do next

circumstances of this will make readers frustrated

wihtout focus, reader has no way to gauge the meaning of anything,  a story wihtout focus
has no yardstick

focus is the synthesis of 3 elements that work in unison to creat a story: 
    protagonist's issue, them and plot 

protagonist's issue 
    stems from something we mentioned in last chapter: story question, which 
    translates to protagonist's goal

theme 
    is what your story says about human nature, 
    theme tends to be reflected in how your characters treat each other, so it 
    defines what is possible and what isn't in world story unfolds in 
    its often what determines whether the protagonist's efforts will succeed or fail, 
    regardless of hwo heroic she is 

plot   
    events that relentlessly force protagonist to deal with her issue as she pursues her goal,
    no matter how many times she tries to make and end run around her issue along way 


taken together these 3 elements give story focus, telling readers whats its about and
allowing them to interpret events as they unfold and thus anticipate where its heading


this is crucial because "minds exist to predict what will happen next" 


focus is of utmost important as well 
first 2 elements (protagoinist issue and theme) are lens thorugh which we determine
what the plot will be 

by setting story's parameters and zeroing in on particular  aspect of protagonists life 
it will chronicle.

cherry pick events that are relevant to story question and construct a gauntlet of challenge
(the plot) that will force protagonist to put his money where his mouth is. 


what is theme exactly? 

    what does story tell us about what it means to be human? 
    what does it say about ho whumans react to circumstances beyond their control? 

theme often reveals your take on how an element of human nature -- 
loyalty, suspicion, grit, love -- defines human behavior. 

but real secret to theme is that its not general; theme wouldnt be "love" -- rather it would
be a very specific point your making about love. 
eg. love story can be sweet and lyrical, revealing that people are good eggs after all

knowing them of your story in advance helps, because it gives you a gauge by which to measure
your characters responses to the situations they find themselves in.

they'll be kind, gruff or conniving depending on the universe you have created for them.

this affects how story quuestion is resolved, because it governs type of resistance 
the protagonist will meet along teh way.

in loving universe, she may discover that she'll find her tru love,
in impersonal universe, she'll find no one she can really relate to 
in cruel universe, she'll end up married to hannibal lecter


theme often reveals the point your story is making -- all stories make a point, beginning
on page one. 
that doesnt mean you have to hit reader over the head with it

knowing your story point is what helps you cut through all the clutter

its crucial because instant reader opens you book; his cognitive unconscious is hunting for 
a way to make life al ittle easier

ask yourself

what is it I want my readers to walk away thinking about?
what point does my story make? 
how do I wnat to change the way my reader sees the world?

myth: plot is what the story is about
reality: story is about how plot affects protagonist 

plot is not synonymous with story

plot facilitates story by forcing protagonist to confront and deal with issue that keeps
him from achieving his goal

the way world treats him, and how he reacts, reveals the teme.

what protagonist is forced to learn as he navigates the plot is what the story is about 

even when protagonist doesn't appear on first page, everything that happens
before he shows p must occur with a clear eye toward how it will affect him when 
he finally ambles in.

=====
theme :keys to the universe

theme is underlying point narrative makes about human experience, and where the universal lies
universal is a feeling, emotion or truth that resonates with us all

for instance "raw power of true love" is something everyone can tap into 

universal is a portal that allows us to climb into skin of characters completely different 
from us and miraculously feel what they feel.

only when embodied in the very specific does universal becomes accessible

by filtering story through thematic lens of loss and human endurance, strout was able 
to pluck and otherwise random moment from olive's life and use it to give us insight
on how Olvive sees the world, and at same time provide visceral glimpse of cost of being 
human.

=====
theme and tone: its not what you say but how you say it

    theme is one of most powerfl elements of yoru story, its also one of most invisible 

its like tone of voice, which ofen says more than words themselves 

tone says the exact opposite of what the words are saying

your story's tone reflects how you see your characters and helps define the world you've 
set them loose in.

tone is how them is conveyed, by cueing your readers to the emotional prism thorugh which
you want them to view your story --- like soundtrack in movie. 

its another way of sharpening focus, highlighting what your reader really needs to know.

tone makes us feel it by evoking a particlar mood. tone belongs to author, mood to the reader

theme gives rise to story's tone which give rise the mood the reader feels.


mood is what underlies the readers sense of what is possible and what isnt, which brings us 
back to the point your story is making as reflected in its theme 

mood is always implied

plots goal is to force him to confront internal issue thats keeping him from it in first place.

This issue is sometimes called the protagonist’s “fatal flaw,” and whether a deep-rooted fear, a stubborn
misperception, or a dubious character trait, it’s what he’s been battling throughout and what he must 
finally overcome to have a clear shot at the last remaining obstacle

once he overcomes it, he often realizes true succcess is vastly different from what he thought it was


checklist 

do you know what the point of your story is?

    What do you want people to walk away thinking about? 
    How do you want to change how they see the world? 

do you know what your story says about human nature?

Do the protagonist’s inner issue, the theme, and the plot work together to answer the 
story question? How can you tell? Ask yourself: 
    Is my theme reflected in the way the world treats my protagonist? 
    Does each plot twist and turn force my protagonist
    to deal with his inner issue, the thing that’s holding him back?

Do the plot and theme stick to the story question?
    Remember, the story question will always be in the back of your 
    reader’s mind, and it is the responsibility of each theme-laced 
    event to keep it there.

Can you sum up what your story is about in a short paragraph?