cognitive: 
we dont think in abstract, we think in images

story secret: 
anything conceptual, abstract or general must be made tangible in protagonists specific struggle

key word is visualizing

images drive emotions as well as intellect

feel first, think second. that is the magic of story

massive, unwieldy, unbearable vastness of its otherwise incomprehensible inhumanity is 
filtered through its effect on one person.


generic concepts are devils

    Jane knew Wally had a reputation for doing horrid things, so when he commented on 
    her appearance in front of everyone, she refrained from smacking him.
 
problem with generalities is that because they're utterly ambiguous, they don't have legs.
because they dont tell us specifically whats happening now, we can't anticipate, specifically
what might happen next.

    Jane knew Wally liked to eat worms so he could gross everyone out by barfing them 
    up during show and tell, so when he called her a sissy in front of the whole 
    kindergarten class, she decided not to punch him in the stomach and give him the 
    pleasure.

generalities are not capable of producing specific consequences, so the storpy has 
nowhere to go. 

just avoid being ambiguous

why would writer be vague? 
    knows story too well (curse of knowledge)
    doesnt know story well enough
    writer knows story very well, she chose not to tell because she think she'll give too much

provide specific on here
1. specific reason character does something
2. specific thing a metaphor is meant to illuminate - we also think in metaphor, 
    avoid too much metaphor forgething whats exactly happening
3. specific memory that a situation invokes in protagonist
4 specific reaction a character has to significant event
    characters need to react to everything that happens for specific reason we can 
    grasp in the moment 
5. specific possibilities that run through the protagonists mind as she struggles 
to maek sense of what's happening 

6. specific rationale behind a characters change of heart. 

    one she realized man was following her, she vowed to never have spaghetti again. 
    but when he called cause the pasta is getting mushy, she hurried to his place. 

myth: sensory details bring story to life
reality: unless they convey necessary information, sensory details clog story's arteries

everything needs a story reason to be there

3 reasons for any sensory detail to be in story

1. part of cause and effect trajectory that relates to possibilities
    she drinks shale, passes out
2. gives us insight to character
    shes an unapologetic hedonist headed for trouble
3. its a metaphor
    flavor choice represents how she sees the world

in addition, reader must be aware of story reason for each detail's presence.

"stories are about people, the things that happen to them, and how they react to it" 

you need to rooth through your story and make sure you've translated anything 
abstract to specific deliciously tangible and gripping visceral

checkpoints

have you translated "generic" to "specific"? 

have specifics gone missing in any of the usual places? 

can your reader see what, specifically your metaphors correlate to in the "real world",
grasp theirmeaning, and picture them, when reading at a clip? 

do all "sensory details" have an actual storyto be there, beyond "just because" 
