cognitive:
    brain is wired to stubbornly resist good change, even good change

story secret
    story is about change, which results only from unavoidable conflict.


brain hates change

we survicved because we're risk takes, but our goal is to stay safe by not 
changing an iota unless we absolutely have to.(conflict)

how to harness impending conflict to mounting suspense from very first sentence,
where specific avenues of conflict and suspense are often found; and why holding 
back crucial information for a big reveal later ironincally tends to ensure that 
readers will never get there.


when it comes to conflict, reader must be able to see things that aren't there. 
for readers to sense that "all is not as it seems", conflict must be palpable long 
before it rises to surface

its potential for ocnflict that gives urgency to everythng that happens
underscoring even the most good events with warnign

it ripples throuh story with tension, suspense, the desire to find out whats really going on

conflict hurts

thats why we try to defuse conflict as quickly as possible

we are made to understand that we bring conflict and we are rewarded both by society and
chemicals in brain for finding ways to resolve it before it escalates.

focus positive rather than negative, dont mess with mr inbetween 

in literature, goal is to embrace conflict and harness it to suspense, 

how do you translate impending conflict into ongoing suspense? 

story spans from before to after when things are in flux.
therefor story iherently records something that is changing,
that something revolves around a problem protagonist must solve in order to 
actually get from "before" to "after" 

on surface, conflict is born along by escalating external obstacles that keep 
protagonist from quickly solving problem and getting on with his day, no worse for wear.

those obstacles mean nothing unless, beneath surface, seeds of that conflict are present
from the outset, as they begin pushing tender shoots thorugh soil in search of sun.

picture it as first hairline crakc in solid wall of "before"

the case of this fissure of is often answer to the qustion,
"why does this story have to start at this very minute?" 


eg. predawn knock at door tells kathryn that something is very wrong

storys first harline crack and its resulting offshoots are like fault lines, running 
through the center of protagonists world, undermining everything.

like an earth, cracks tend to be caused by two opposing forces, and protag caught between 
them.

every story have more than one versys, here are most common

    what protagonist believes is true versus what is actually true
    what protagonist wants vs protagonist actually has 
    protagonist wants vs whats expected of her
    protagonist vs herserlf
    protagonists inner goal versus protagonists external goal
        protagonists fear vs protagonists goal(external, internal or both)
    
story takes place in
    time between "before" and "after" 
    space between the "versus" 

as protagonist maneuvers within two conflicting reaities, trying to bring them into alignment
and solve problem.

once he does this, the space between them close and story ends

meanhwile, suspense builds as reader wonders how on earth these realities, which seems
to be moving further and further apart, will ever come togethers

its story's job to poke at protagonist in one way or another until she changes

===
how "versus" can shape story from inside out

3 facts
    1. brain is hunt for meaningful patterns in everything, better to predict what will 
    happen based on patterns
    2. we run scenario on page through our own personal experience/similar events whether
    real or imagined, to see whether its believable.
    (whihc gives us ability to infer more information than on page -- or go mad when 
    there isnt enough information for us to infer anything at all)
    3. were hardwired to love problem solving: when we figure something out we feel 
    pleasure. pleasure of story is trying to figure out what's really going on

in short reader knows way more than you think she does, so relax and don't worry so much 
about giving too much away. 

on external we can have what she wants vs what she has
on internal we cna have what she believes vs what is actually true

antagonist is most obvious source of conflict 
antagonist must put protagonist through her paces

reason various verses are so good at engendering suspense is that pitting two opposing 
desires, facts, or truths against each other inherently incites ongoing conflict. 

which gives readers something to root for

myth: withholding information for the big reveal is what keep readers hooked
reality: withholding information very often robs story of what really hooks readers

reveal is a fact when known, changes "everything" 

major reveal is srprise near the end that twists meaning of everything that came before it 
although each story made sense up to that moment, the reveal makes even more sense. 


its only because of pattern of hints that reveal is instnatly accepted as truth 

while readers reinterpret specific events in light of new information that twists meaning
there are 2 conditions must be met first 

1. there must have been a pattern of specifc hints or tells along way, alerting us 
that all was not as it seems, which new twists now illuminates and explains
2. these "hints" and "tells" need to stand out in their own right before reveal

when done properly, reveals can be extremely effective. 

crucial question: 
    what does holding back this information gain me, story wise? how does it make 
    story better?

writer must make readers to  awnt the know the secret, therefor way to lure reader is not by: 

1. keeping real reason characters are doing what they doing so secret we don't even know 
there is real reason.
2.letting readers there is secret, but then keeping it so vague that we can't even guess 
what particulars are 

checkpoints
Have you made sure that the basis of future conflict is sprouting, beginning on page one? 
    Can we glimpse avenues that will lead to conflict?
    Can we anticipate the problems that the protagonist might not yet be aware of?

Have you established the “versus” so that the reader is aware of the specific rock and 
hard place the protagonist is wedged between? 
    Can we anticipate how he will have to change in order to get what he wants? 

Does the conflict force the protagonist to take action, whether it’s to rationalize 
it away or actually change? 
    Imagine what you would want to avoid if you were your protagonist—and then make 
    her face it. 

Have you made sure that the story gains something by withholding specific facts for a 
big reveal later? 
    Don’t be afraid of giving too much away; you can always pare back later. 
    Showing your hand is often a very good thing indeed. 

Once the reveal is known, will everything that happened up to that point still make 
sense in light of this new information? 
    Remember, the story must make complete sense without the reveal, but in light 
    of the reveal, the story must make even more sense.