
cognitive: 
    emotion determines meaning of everything

story secret: 
    all story is emotion based

if reader can't feel what matters and what does'nt, then nothing matters.

real story is how what happens affect protagonist, and what she does as result.


everything in story gets its emotional weight and meaning based on how it 
affects protagonist.

neutrality bores the reader.

every scene, protag must react in a way reader can see and understand in moment.
reaction must be specific personal and have an effect on whether protagonist 
achieves her goal

everything we experience is coated with emotion


protagonist reaction can come in 3 ways

1. externally
2. via our intuition
3. protagonists internal thought

reader must be aware of protagonist personal spin on everything that happens

prose provide direct access to protagonists midn.

when writing first person

     everyword narrator says must in some way reflect his point of view
     narrator never mentions anything that doesn't affect him in some way
     narrator draws conclusion about everything he mentions
     narrator can never tell us what anyone else is thinking or feeling


3rd person
    3rd eprson objective - show protagonists internal reactions through external cues, bodylanguage,
    clothes, where she goes,
    3rd person limited - like writing in first person
    3rd person omniscient - telephathy

narrative voice is always neutral, omniscient report jsut report the facts

body language is one language impossible ot really lie in
we can show how character feels through body language

readers goal is to experiences it on her own terms,
your job is to layout what happens, show how it affects protagonist 
the less you tell us how to feel, more likely we feel exactly what you want us to


myth: write what you know
reality: write what you know emotionally


checklist 

does protagonist react to everything happens and in a way that your reader will instantly understand?
    Can we see the causal link between what happened and why she reacted the way she did? 
    Are we aware of what her expectations are so we can tell whether or not they’re being met? 
    And, if she isn’t in the scene in question, do we know how what happens will affect her? 

If you’re writing in the first person, is everything filtered through the narrator’s point of view? 
    Remember, in the first person, the narrator doesn’t mention anything that doesn’t 
    relate to the story and that doesn’t already have his personal spin stamped on it.

Have you left editorializing to the op-ed department? 
    The more you have a message you want to convey, the more you have to trust your story to do it. 
    The joy of reading is getting to make up your own mind about what a story’s ultimate message is. 
    The joy of writing is being stealthy enough to stack the deck so your reader will choose yours. 

Do you use body language to tell us things we don’t already know? 
    Think of body language as a “tell,” something that cues your reader 
    into the fact that all is not as it seems.
 