cognitive secret: 
    since brain abhors randomness, its always converting raw data into meaningful patterns,
    the better to anticipate what might happen next

story secret:
    readers are always on lookout for pattersn; 
    to your reader, everything is either a setup, payoff or a road in between


stories often begine moment a pattern in protagonist life stops working.

most basic way to get someone attention is break a pattern

to break pattern, we need to know what pattern is

as far as reader is concered, everything is part of pattern

anything that is beginning of new pattern is setup

setup is something (fact, act, person, event) that implies future actions

set up is pieceo of informaton reader needs well in advance of payoff so payoff will be 
believable.

setups are single piece of supporting information
often setup triggers an entire subplot, motive or way to interepret what's happening
its important to point out fromthe get-go that the payoff the reader anticipates 
doesnt have to be correct, farfrom it

true meaning of set up is clear only in hindsight

"the solution, once revealed, must seem to be inevitable"

keep in mind to reader, everything in story is either a setup, payroll, or the road in between

everything you present is part of pattern

each even will have critical significance

some setps dont read like setups at all 

big part of pleasure is emerging path from setups to payoffs
big part of pleasure of reading is recognizing, interpreting, and connecting dots so pattern 
emerges


3 basic rules

1. there must actually be a road
    setup not allowed to piggyback on the payoff, 
    piggyback occurs when we learn problem at moment its been solved.
2. reader must be able to see road unfold
3. intended payoff must not be patently nimpossible 
    make sure that what your charctesr intend to do is plausible 

checkpoint

are there inadvertent setups lurking in your story>? 
    great tool for ferreting out unintended setups is "and so?" test

is there a clear series of events -- pattern -- that begins with setup
and culminates in payoff? 
        no piggyback
        
do "dots" build? 

is payoff of each of your setups logistically possible?
