cognitive:
    brain uses stories to simulate how we might navigate difficult situations in the future

story secret: 
    a story's job is to put protagonist through tests that even in her wildest dreams, she
    doesn't think she can pass.

your protagonist really truly does have to suffer -- otherwise not only will she have
nothing to teach us, but we won't have much reason to care about what happens to her either.


why youre actually doing your protagonist a fovor by setting her up for a fall(or three 
or four)

how to make sure protagonists trouble build

11 devious ways to undermine characters best laid plans

yu want to live up to her true potential
you rjob is to see that circumstances beyond your protagonists control fling her out of her 
easy chair and into fray

story is an esaclating dare, and its goal is to make sure your protagonist is worthy
of her goal

you have to be mean to her

myth: literary novles are character driven, so they don't need a plot
reality: literary novel has just as much plot as a mass market potboiler, if not more


in literary fiction plot must be far more layered, intricate and finely woven in order
to illuminate subtler adn more nuanced themes

character driven novels rely a lot less on sinking ships, falling meteors and tidal waves,
and lot more on a missed gesture, a quick nod, a moment's hesitation -- which in 
hands of great writer can feel more earth shattering than earthquake. 


literary fiction revolves around escalating series of challenges that protagonist must brave,
because no matter how keenly honed protagonist still he wants something real bad

story revolves around events that force protagonist to come to grips with a difficult 
inner issue whihc literary noves are more geared to convey

in beginning protagonists quest tends to look easy to him, it has to

whats the more painful is something you only made mistake, but that you were found. 
social pain -- embarrassment, mortification, shame --- lingers, full measure of the 
paint feel afresh everytime you think about it

sociaal fail is mortifying but it sure triggers change

constantly upping stake gets protagonist in shape, which is cruical, since the final 
hurdle he'll have to sail over will be impossibly high. 

the more you put him through tests before he gets there, the beteter. 

"a wounded deer leaps the highest"

let reader know first what your protagonist plan before you begin to dash it


dos and don'ts 


1. no one should ever reveal anything they aren't forced to- -- by circumstance beyond their
control

2. allow protagonist to have secrets -- but not to keep them
    we are afraid of what will happen, thats why we keep secrets
    let reader know secret and why
    ultimately forcing her to made known her secret will actuallly be kindness

3. do ensure that everything protagonist does to remedy situation only makes it worse 
    irony factory,
    irony stems from fact plan works brilliantly and protagonist gets exactly what she's 
    after, only to discover its actually the last thing she'd want

4. do make sure everything that can go wrong does

5. let characters start out risking dollar but end up betting the farm

6. there is no such thing as free lunch -- unless of course, its poisoned
    everything must be earned, nothing cna come to your protagonist easily
    readers goal is to experience how he reacts when things go wrong
    protagonist has to work for everything he gets
    only time things come easily is when they are opposite of what actually best for him

7. encourage your characters to lie
    characters who lie are ones who catch our interest
    you need to let us know character is in fact lying.

8. do bring in threat of clear, present and escalating danger
    you need force of opposition, without it protagonist has nothing to play against,
    making it damn near impossible for  him prove his worth

    force of opposition must be well defined -- and present
    something that actually does anything

    nothing focuses mind better than rapidly approaching deadline

    force of opposition doesn't have to be a person.
    can be conceptual like strict soical conformity or tyranny of letter of law, 
    but cant stay conceptual because its abstract
    what does affect us is concept made specifc and thus concrete
    concept needs to be personified by specific characters who try to force protagonist 
    to bend to theri will

9. make sure villain has good side 
    just as protagonist needs a flaw, so is the antagonist needs positive trait
    villain with couple of good qualities just might be redeemable, instilling suspense

10. expo characters flaws, demons and insecurities 
    stories are about people who are uncomfortable, nothingmakes us more uncomfortable 
    than change.
    things that are not falling apart are dull

    its writers job to dismantle all places where your protagonist seeks sanctuary and 
    to actively force him out into cold
    her becomes her by confronting ones own inner demons in process

11. do expose your demons
    story tends to be about the raging mess inside, the one we struggle to keep 
    under wraps as we valiantly try to make sense of our world

    this is often arena the real story unfolds in 

    "one does not become enlightened by imagining figures of light, 
    but by making darkness conscious" 

checkpoints
    has everything that can go wrong indeed gone wrong?
        dont be nice
    have you exposed your protagoinsts deepest secrets and most guarded flaws? 
        force him to fess up, no matter how embarrasing or painful revelation
        obliged him to confront his demons
        how can he possibly overcome them or realize they arent bad after all unless 
        he's forced to come to grips with them?

    does your protagonist earn everything she gets, and pay for everything she loses? 
        there must be a consequence to everything that happens
        a consequence that forces your protagonist to take action she'd really rather not
    
    does evreything your protagonist does to make situation better only makes it worse? 
        worse things get, the better
    
    is the force of opposition personified, pressent and active? 
        readers want someone to root against
        danger needs to be specific and wired to rapidly ticking clock