cognitive: 
we see the world not as it is, but as we believe it to believe

story secret
    you must know precisely when and why your protagonist worldview was knocked 
    out of alignment


we dont even know we are thinking wrong until something happens that proves us wrong,
where we have to either deal with it or work overtime to rationalize it away.

stories often begin at the moment where one of the protagonists long held beliefs 
is about to be called into question. (this is the internal issue)

sometimes that belief is what stands between her and something she really wants
sometimes its whats keepin gher from doing the right thing
sometimes its what she has to confront to get out of bad situation before its too late

the struggle with this internal issue is what drives story forward

plot must be cleverly constructed to back her into a corner where she has no choice but 
to face it or fold up her tent and go home.

events cajole and coax her to reexamine her past which often looks and feels 
very different in retrospect

stories are about people dealing with problems they can't avoid 

best place to start is by pinpointing the moment long before, when she first fell prey 
to the inner isseu thats been skewing her worldview ever since.


myth: you can get to know your characters only by writing complete biios
reality: character bios should concentrate solely on information relevant to your story

look only for information that pertains to story youre telling

if story is about problem, look for root problem that will blossom on page one.

when writing protags bios, pinpoint these 2 things
    -event in his past that knocked his worldview out of alignment,
    triggering internal issue that keeps him from achieving his goal
    -inception of his desire for the goal itself.

goal is to find those seminal moments and trace trajectory of events they triggered

dos and donts

1. story is about something that is changing,
specific before that leads to moment when suddenly everything is in flux
seed this before information, 
before is yardstick that allows reader to measure protagonists progress towards after

2. be comfortable digging deep into character's psyches
ask them embarrasing questions about it, more personal is better

seeks out good, bad and uggly, messy and secrets they keep to themselves.

essence of a story lies in revealing things that in real life we dont say out loud

dont allow any privacy when exploreing past. 

3. dont try to write well. (what? )

4. write short bios for every character even though most of what youwrite will not
make it into narrative. 

it unearths motivation that lies beneath what your characters do. 


you do need to know what the protagonist will have to learn along the way

waht her "aha!" moment will be

know with clarity what protagonists worldview is, and where and why its off base.
making you have a clear view of world as your protagonist sees it and insight into 
how she therefor interprets and reacts to  everything that happen to her.

its what allows you to construct a plot that forces her to reevaluate what she 
was so damn sure was tru when story began. 


checklist

do you know why your story begins when it does? 
    what is forcing protagonist to take action, whether she wants to or not

have you uncovered roots of your protagonists specific fears and desires? do you know
what her issue is? 
    trace is bact to specific events in her past. 

made characters reveal deepest darkest secrets to you

be specific enough when writing character bios

have some clue where its heading

